 
 
YBL/CS/2025-26/79 
 
July 26, 2025 
 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Exchange Plaza, 
Plot no. C/1, G Block, 
Bandra - Kurla Complex 
Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400 051 
NSE Symbol: YESBANK 
BSE Limited 
Corporate Relations Department 
P.J. Towers, Dalal Street 
Mumbai – 400 001 
BSE Scrip Code: 532648 
 
Dear Sirs/Madam, 
 
Sub.: Integrated Annual Report of YES Bank Limited (“ the Bank”) for Financial Year 2024-25 
 
Ref.: Regulations 34, 53 and other applicable provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”) 
 
Please refer to our letter no. YBL/CS/2025-26/72 dated July 19, 2025, inter alia, intimating about the                
21st Annual General Meeting of the Bank scheduled to be held on Thursday, August 21, 2025. 
 
In continuation of the aforesaid letter and pursuant to Regulations 34, 53 and other applicable provisions 
of the Listing Regulations, please find attached the Integrated Annual Report for Financial Year 2024-25 
and the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report of the Bank which forms part of the Integrated 
Annual Report along with Reasonable Assurance Opinion Statement provided by BSI Group India 
Private Limited.  
 
The PDF version of the 21st Annual General Meeting Notice and Integrated Annual Report for Financial 
Year 2024-25 can be accessed/downloaded from the weblink given below: 
 
 https://www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=agm_notice2025.pdf 
 
 https://www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=ybl_yesbank_integrated_annual_report_2024_25.pdf 
 
 
The Bank has commenced dispatch (by electronic means) of the Notice of 21st Annual General Meeting 
scheduled to be held on Thursday, August 21, 2025 at 10.30 A.M. (IST) through Video Conferencing 
(VC)/ Other Audio-Visual Means (OVAM) and the Integrated Annual Report for FY 2024-25 to its 
shareholders and bondholders, starting today i.e. Saturday, July 26, 2025. 
 
We request you to take the above on your record and disseminate to all concerned. 
 
Thanking you, 
  
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
For YES BANK LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
Sanjay Abhyankar 
Company Secretary 
Encl: As above 
SANJAY MADHAV 
ABHYANKAR
Digitally signed by SANJAY 
MADHAV ABHYANKAR 
Date: 2025.07.26 18:38:29 
+05'30'
Soaring New Heights
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
yesbank.in
Key highlights FY 2024-25
` 14,801 crore
Total Net Income
` 284,525 crore
Total Deposits
` 2,406 crore
Net Profit
` 246,188 crore
Total Advances
` 97,899 crore
New Sanction/Disbursements
34.3%
CASA Ratio
0.3%
Net NPA
15.6%
Capital Adequacy 
Ratio
59%
Share of Retail and 
SME in Total Advances
Contents
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
Theme of the Report	
02
About this Report	
04
At a Glance	
06
Message from Chairman	
08
Message from Managing 
Director & CEO	
12
Message from Executive 
Director (Dr. Rajan Pental)	
18
Message from Executive 
Director (Mr. Manish Jain)	
19
Board of Directors	
20
Board Committees	
22
Management Team	
24
Key Performance Indicators	
26
Products and Services	
28
OUR INTEGRATED APPROACH
Our Strategy	
50
Risk Management	
60
Stakeholder Engagement	
70
Materiality Assessment	
76
Value Creation Model	
92
OUR PERFORMANCE
Governance and Ethics	
94
Environment and  
Climate Change	
108
People and Society	
124
Progress on Profitability	
162
Principles for Responsible  
Banking: Portfolio Impact 
Assessment and Targets 	
170
STATUTORY REPORTS
Management Discussion 
and Analysis	
172
Directors’ Report	
200
Corporate Governance Report	
237
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Report	
293
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Standalone Financials	
342
Consolidated Financials	
438
Assurance Statement	
493
GRI Content Index	
516
TCFD Index	
522
PRB-Responsible  
Banking Progress Statement: 
Summary Template	
523
Scan the above 
QR code to read 
the report on your 
handheld device
See this report online at 
www.yesbank.in
Soaring New Heights
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
yesbank.in
01
Soaring New Heights
FY 2024–25 marks a pivotal chapter in YES BANK’s journey - a year where 
the foundations of transformation translated into measurable momentum. 
With our turnaround phase now decisively behind us, we enter a new era of 
purposeful growth; a future-focused, customer-first, and digitally forward 
institution, well-positioned to soar to new heights.
Charting a future of meaningful growth and enduring value
This ascent is no coincidence. It is the outcome 
of calibrated choices, bold investments in digital 
infrastructure, and a culture of prudence, agility, and 
accountability. We are evolving - not just as a bank, but 
as an enabler of prosperity, convenience, and trust.
At the heart of this evolution lies a fundamental belief 
that banking must meet the customer where they 
are - intuitively, securely, and seamlessly. We are 
committed to making YES BANK a natural extension 
of every customer’s financial life - through a growing 
physical footprint, a dynamic digital presence, and 
a full-spectrum suite of offerings that reflect the 
evolving aspirations of a modern India.
Building the Next-Generation Bank
Today, YES BANK stands strong as a professionally 
governed, future-ready private sector institution, 
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
02
YES BANK LIMITED
offering comprehensive banking solutions to individuals, 
businesses, and communities across the country. With an 
expanding footprint, robust governance architecture, and a 
platform designed for scale, the Bank continues to reinforce 
its position as India’s 6th largest* private sector bank.
During the year, we continued to progress steadily across all 
key performance metrics - reporting our highest net profit 
since March 2020, improved NPA ratios, and a stabilised 
Net Interest Margin. Our granular and diversified balance 
sheet reflects a renewed focus on quality, while our cost 
structures remain optimised through stringent discipline and 
strategic execution.
Our efforts are not just visible in the numbers - they are 
reflected in the quality of relationships we build, the trust 
we inspire, and the relevance we maintain across diverse 
customer segments.
A Digitally Enabled, Customer-Centric Future
As we grow, we do so with a sharp focus on customer 
experience. We believe that innovation is not about 
complexity - it is about simplifying the banking experience for 
every individual, enterprise and ecosystem we serve.
Our digital banking platforms are designed to empower 
customers with secure, smart, and seamless interactions 
- enabling everything from daily transactions to long-term 
investments, from small-ticket credit to large-scale business 
solutions. Platforms such as YES Pay Next and IRIS Biz 
continue to gain healthy traction, reinforcing our role as a key 
player in India’s vibrant digital banking landscape.
At the same time, we recognise the enduring value of physical 
touchpoints. With 37 new branches added during the year 
and 1.3 million new CASA accounts onboarded, our physical 
network remains a critical pillar of inclusion and outreach.
Our retail strategy reflects this dual commitment - balancing 
growth with risk prudence, profitability with sustainability, 
and expansion with a sharp focus on customer-centricity.
Governance, Responsibility and Impact
We see our role not only as a financial intermediary, but also 
as a responsible corporate citizen. As we soar, we are deeply 
conscious of the impact we leave behind.
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) principles are 
embedded into our business strategy, decision-making, and 
employee culture. For the third year running, we have been 
rated among the highest-ranked Indian banks by S&P Global 
and CDP for ESG and climate disclosures - a reaffirmation of 
our commitment to responsible banking.
Through YES Foundation, we continue to enable financial 
literacy, digital inclusion, and sustainable livelihoods - 
extending our reach beyond customers to communities.
The Road Ahead
With a strengthened balance sheet, a growing deposit base, 
strong digital platforms, and a trusted brand, YES BANK is 
uniquely placed to scale its universal banking ambitions. 
We aspire to be a bank of choice for every segment - from 
individuals to institutions, from first-time account holders to 
seasoned investors, and from MSMEs to large corporates.
As we look ahead, our journey is guided by a clear vision 
- to be a differentiated, future-ready institution of global 
standards, deeply attuned to stakeholder needs and powered 
by innovation, integrity and inclusion.
In everything we do, we are committed to creating enduring 
value - for our customers, our employees, our shareholders, 
and the nation.
We are not just rising — we are soaring.
*By total assets as on March 31, 2025
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
03
About this Report
Reporting Standards and Principles1
The Bank utilises a number of regulatory and voluntary 
guidelines and frameworks, to prepare and publish detailed 
financial and non-financial disclosures that provide a fair 
and holistic representation of the Bank’s performance 
during the year.
The Bank’s financial disclosures are aligned to the following 
reporting frameworks:
	y
The financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with requirements prescribed under the 
Third Schedule (Form A and Form B) of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949
	y
The accounting and reporting policies of the Bank 
used in the preparation of these financial statements 
conform to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
in India (Indian GAAP), the guidelines and clarifications 
issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) from time to 
time, the accounting standards notified under section 
133 of the Companies Act 2013 read together with 
Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 to the 
extent applicable and practices generally prevalent in the 
banking industry in India
	y
The Bank follows the accrual method of accounting and 
the historical cost convention, unless otherwise stated by 
the RBI guidelines
The Bank’s statutory disclosures are aligned to the following 
regulations and standards:
	y
Companies Act, 2013 (including the rules made thereunder)
	y
The Securities and Exchange Board of India Regulations, 
Circulars and Guidelines
	y
The Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and other relevant 
RBI Regulations
	y
The Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India
The Bank’s non-financial disclosures are aligned to the 
following reporting standards and frameworks:
	y
The Bank has published its Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Report (BRSR), as part of this Integrated 
Annual Report, in alignment with the National Guidelines 
on Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) and the BRSR 
Core – Framework
YES BANK is pleased to present its Integrated Annual Report 
for the financial year 2024-25. This report marks the Bank’s 
third year of adopting the International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) Foundation’s, Integrated Reporting <IR> 
Framework for preparing its annual report. Through this 
report, the Bank aims to present to its stakeholders, a fair, 
comprehensive and coherent picture of the Bank’s financial 
and non-financial performance for the financial year 2024-25. 
The report also aims to delineate the Bank’s strategy and 
progress at integrating Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) considerations, into its operations, portfolio and 
value chain, as it continues to evolve into a forward-looking 
institution, ready for a future of accelerated profitability, 
enhanced governance, and long-term value creation.
Scope and Boundary1
This Integrated Annual Report has been prepared on a 
standalone basis and contains financial and non-financial 
disclosures pertaining to the operations, business and value 
chain of YES BANK Limited (YES BANK), for the financial year 
2024-25. The Bank has one subsidiary, Yes Securities (India) 
Limited (YSIL), which only forms part of the Consolidated 
Financials presented on Page 438 of this report, in accordance 
with statutory requirements. The Bank has applied the 
operational control approach to establish its organisational 
boundary for this report, which includes the following:
The Bank’s eight major offices in India (including 
the Bank’s Registered Office, YES BANK House 
in Mumbai) and 24 other offices
1
One representative office in Abu Dhabi
4
1,255 Branches and 1,331 ATMs / CRMs / BNAs
2
One IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) in Gujarat 
International Finance Tec-City (GIFT)
3
1GRI 2-2
04
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
	y
The Bank’s Integrated Annual Report has been 
prepared in accordance with the International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) Foundation’s, Integrated 
Reporting <IR> Framework
	y
This report also contains voluntary sustainability 
disclosures in accordance with the GRI Standards for 
the period April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 (FY 2024-25). 
The Bank’s sustainability disclosures are published on 
an annual basis
	y
The Report also contains enhanced climate disclosures 
aligned to the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations
Approach and Preparation
In line with the principles of the International <IR> Framework, 
YES BANK’s Integrated Annual Report seeks to provide its 
stakeholders with a comprehensive insight into the Bank’s 
integrated approach to value creation. The Bank has applied 
the double-materiality principle to identify key material 
topics that represent its most significant impacts on the 
economy, environment, and people, and the impact of current 
sustainability issues on the Bank’s own enterprise value 
creation process. The report outlines the Bank’s management 
approach, strategy and performance against each material 
topic and their impacts.
The report seeks to present the interconnections between 
the Bank’s material topics, strategy, risk management and 
governance frameworks, in the context of its operating 
environment, and describes how its business model has 
impacted its financial, manufactured, intellectual, human, 
social and relationship, and natural capitals. The report has 
been prepared by a cross-functional, integrated reporting 
team, led by the Chief Financial Officer and the Company 
Secretary, with inputs from business units, control and 
support functions across the Bank, and with review and 
oversight provided by senior and top management. 
Responsibility Statement
The Bank acknowledges the integrity of the information 
provided in this Integrated Annual Report and believes 
that the Report is a fair representation of its financial and 
non-financial performance in FY 2024-25. The Board is 
apprised of the report's alignment with the <IR> Framework 
and acknowledges that the information provided in the report 
has been reviewed and approved by respective business unit 
heads and the top management.
Assurance1
The statutory auditors of the Bank’s financial statements 
and the assurance provider for its non-financial disclosures 
have been appointed by the Board of Directors on the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee of the Board and 
the top management. The financial statements in this report 
have been independently audited by G. M. Kapadia & Co., 
Chartered Accountants (FRN 104767W) (GMK) and C N K 
& Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants (FRN 101961W/
W100036) (CNK). Independent assurance for non-financial 
disclosures including, reasonable assurance of BRSR Core key 
performance indicators included in the Bank’s BRSR, limited 
assurance of non-financial disclosures in accordance with 
GRI Standards (2021); and limited assurance of the report’s 
alignment with the <IR> Framework, have been provided by 
BSI Group India Private Ltd.
This report highlights the Bank’s integrated approach and captures the interlinkages between the Bank’s capitals,  
material topics, risks and strategy. To view these interlinkages, look for the following symbols in the report:
Capitals
C
Risks
R
Strategic Business Objectives 
SBOs
Material Topics
M
Feedback1
YES BANK welcomes your feedback  
and suggestions on this Report,  
which may be communicated to 
shareholders@yesbank.in or  
responsible.banking@yesbank.in
1GRI 2-3, GRI 2-5
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
05
At a Glance
At YES BANK, we are driven by 
a deep purpose and relentless 
commitment to our customers.
Unit (IBU) at GIFT City in Ahmedabad, Gujarat and a 
Representative Office in Abu Dhabi. With a growing 
presence pan-India, it empowers its customers to achieve 
their full potential, serve India’s future businesses and 
shape the future of banking.
The Bank’s vision rests on three strategic pillars:
	y
Universal Banking with Granular Focus: To maintain its 
role as a universal bank, while refining and expanding 
each business segment that it has presence in
	y
Digital Leadership and Relationship Banking: To leverage 
the established digital market leadership and serve 
new-age economy and future value pools, ensuring that 
it also supports and captures transactional business
	y
Employee-centric Culture and Efficient Processes: To 
prioritise an employee-focussed, thriving and people-
first culture, streamline processes, and develop a 
scalable technology infrastructure
YES BANK has an unwavering commitment to 
sustainability, creating a positive impact on the society and 
the environment, and responding effectively to evolving 
ESG expectations, regulations and opportunities. The Bank 
continuously monitors ESG and climate developments, 
collaborating with stakeholders to integrate key 
sustainability themes and practices into its operations, 
thus making a lasting impact.
Headquartered in Mumbai, YES BANK is a leading Indian 
private sector Bank, the 6th largest* in India, driven by its 
core values and committed to transforming the financial 
landscape of India. Operating across Retail, MSME 
Corporate, Wholesale and Rural Banking segments, it is a 
full-service Bank, offering an extensive range of financial 
services and full-fledged banking solutions to over 
10 million# satisfied customers, with its comprehensive 
bouquet of products,services and digital solutions.
With 1,255 Branches and 235 BC Banking Outlets 
nationwide, along with 1,331 ATMs (including CRMs and 
BNAs) in 300+ districts in India, and a dedicated team of 
28,690 YES BANKers, the Bank leverages cutting-edge 
technology and industry insights to meet the evolving 
needs of its customers. It delivers exceptional banking 
solutions to empower individuals, businesses and 
communities to thrive.
The Bank operates its Brokerage business through its 
wholly-owned subsidiary, YES SECURITIES. It has a 
pan-India presence including an International Banking 
Delivering secure, seamless and innovative banking solutions
*By total assets as on March 31, 2025	
         # December 31, 2024
06
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
*YES BANK achieved the highest S&P Global ESG score amongst Indian banks based on the S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA) 2024. 
The Bank’s S&P Global ESG score stood at 73 (out of 100) and its S&P Global CSA Score stood at 72 (out of 100) as at November 7, 2024
` 284,525 crore
Total Deposits
Our Intrinsic Strengths
Building a formidable and 
dedicated talent pool
Share in Total Advances
Reaching out to a wide  
customer base
59%
Retail and SME
17%
Mid-Corporate
24%
Corporate
28,690
Employees
9 Years
Average years of service in 
Bank for Top Management
3
rd Year in a row
Certified Great Place to 
Work® in India, 2025
1,255
Branches
300+
Districts
235
BC Banking Outlets
1,331
ATMs/BNAs/CRMs
73/100
Highest S&P Global ESG score 
amongst Indian banks*
A- (Leadership Band)
Highest CDP rating among  
Indian banks for 2023 Climate 
Change disclosures
6.49 lakh
Active women customers 
in rural India
Doing business responsibly
` 423,422 crore
Total Assets
` 246,188 crore
Total Advances
Assessing our market impact
#1
UPI Payee PSP with 56.9% 
market share
#1
Acquiring AePS Bank with 
39.21% market share
#2
In NEFT Outward Debit 
Transactions
07
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Message from 
Chairman
1
Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
Chairman
Your Bank completed 5 
years of the new journey 
of “YES BANK of Today”, 
marking it a special year 
which was characterised 
by YES BANK’s renewed 
strength, strategic 
clarity, and a steadfast 
commitment to 
delivering value to all
our stakeholders.
1GRI 2-22
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
08
YES BANK LIMITED
Dear Shareholders,
It is with great pride and optimism that I present to you the 
Integrated Annual Report for the financial year 2024-25. 
Last year, your Bank completed 5 years of the new journey 
of “YES BANK of Today”, marking it a special year which 
was characterised by YES BANK’s renewed strength, 
strategic clarity, and a steadfast commitment to delivering 
value to all our stakeholders.
Macroeconomic Overview
India’s economy continued its resilient growth trajectory 
in FY 2024-25, with real GDP expanding by approximately 
6.5%. Despite global uncertainties, domestic demand 
remained robust, supported by government-led 
infrastructure investments, a rebound in rural 
consumption, and a stable monetary policy environment. 
CPI Inflation moderated to 4.6% in FY 2024-25, and the 
current account deficit was contained at 0.6% of GDP, 
reflecting strong services exports and remittances. 
The recent reduction in the repo rate signals a shift 
towards supporting growth while maintaining inflation 
control. Consumer and business confidence for the year 
ahead remain high and the investment scenario is brighter 
as corporations step into FY 2025-26 with robust balance 
sheets and high profitability. India's GDP is projected to 
grow by 6.5% in FY 2025-26, while consumer price inflation 
is expected to remain below 4% during the same period.
Financial Performance
Your Bank delivered a 92.3% Y-O-Y increase in Net Profit, 
reaching ` 2,406 crore in FY 2024-25. This was driven by 
improvements across Interest and Non-Interest income, 
cost discipline, asset quality, while delivering calibrated 
growth across SME, Mid Corporate and Large Corporate 
segments. The Bank’s Total Assets in FY 2024-25 
stood at ` 4.23 lakh crore, with deposits crossing ` 2.85 
lakh crore and CASA ratio at 34.3%. At the same time, 
the Return on Assets (RoA) for FY 2024-25 further 
expanded to 0.6% from 0.3% in the previous year, and the 
annualised RoA for the Quarter ended March 31, 2025 
was at 0.7%. Further in FY 2024-25, there was a notable 
improvement in asset quality, as the Net Non-Performing 
Assets (NPA) ratio declined to 0.3% of Net Advances with 
PCR now at 80%. Furthermore, the value of Net Security 
Receipts was reduced to nil. Borrowings for the Bank for 
the year ended March 31, 2025 stood at ` 71,603 crore, 
a reduction of ~` 8,338 crore from the previous year 
aided by reduction in RIDF balances. The Bank's journey 
through the current financial year has been marked by 
innovation, collaboration, and its sharp focus on strategy 
of profitable growth.
Digital Banking and Innovation
Your Bank continues to strengthen its digital capabilities 
and investing in new-age digital technologies to offer 
superior customer experience. Your Bank has digital 
journeys for seamless customer acquisition, servicing, and 
cross-sell in place for retail as well as corporate customers. 
Your Bank delivered a 92.3% 
Y-O-Y increase in Net Profit, 
reaching ` 2,406 crore in  
FY 2024-25. This was driven 
by improvements across 
Interest and Non-Interest 
income, cost discipline, asset 
quality, while delivering 
calibrated growth across 
SME, Mid Corporate and 
Large Corporate segments.
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
09
The Bank has implemented comprehensive digital 
onboarding journey with an industry-first, data-backed 
product recommender in real time for new-to-bank 
current account. It offers boutique of 238 unique digital 
offerings across various applications. Your Bank launched 
seamless GST payment solutions for both customers 
and non-customers. To augment its offerings, your Bank 
continues to partner with various FinTechs and corporates 
and continues to be a leading player in new-age digital 
payments. To grow its digital volumes further and build 
resilience, the Bank has implemented enhanced API 
banking and cloud-native infrastructure. These initiatives 
reflect our commitment to delivering secure, intelligent, 
and personalised banking experiences.
Governance and Risk Culture
Your Bank is committed to upholding the highest standards 
of corporate governance and fostering a robust risk 
culture. Our governance framework is designed to ensure 
transparent decision-making, effective risk management, 
and ethical conduct across all levels of the organisation. 
Your Board of Directors play a pivotal role in overseeing 
the Bank's strategic direction, financial performance, and 
risk management practices. Your Bank has established 
comprehensive policies and procedures to ensure 
accountability, integrity, and compliance with regulatory 
requirements. Your Bank's risk management framework 
is built on the principles of proactive identification, 
assessment, and mitigation of risks. We employ advanced 
risk management tools and techniques to monitor and 
manage credit, market, operational, and liquidity risks 
effectively. The Board's Risk Management Committee 
provides oversight on risk-related matters, ensuring 
that risk management practices are aligned with the 
Bank's strategic objectives. Regular reviews and audits 
are conducted to assess the effectiveness of our risk 
management framework. Your Bank is committed to 
maintaining the highest ethical standards in all our 
operations. Our Code of Conduct outlines the principles 
and values that guide our actions, ensuring that we 
operate with integrity, transparency, and respect for 
all stakeholders.
ESG & Sustainability
The past year has been pivotal for ESG integration 
in India’s financial sector, marked by a series of 
progressive regulatory developments to strengthen 
sustainability-related governance and transparency. 
SEBI has advanced ESG efforts by refining the BRSR 
framework, launching the ESG Debt Securities framework, 
and eased operations for ESG rating providers. The 
Ministry of Finance’s Draft Climate Finance Taxonomy 
offers timely clarity for aligning green lending. 
Meanwhile, IFSCA’s anti-greenwashing guidelines 
mark a shift toward credible ESG practices. YES BANK 
remains actively engaged, aligning its strategy with these 
evolving standards.
At YES BANK, we view this transition as a catalyst for 
long-term value creation. As the only Indian banking 
signatory to the UNEP FI Principles for Responsible 
Banking, the Bank is committed to aligning its business 
with the objectives of the  United Nations Sustainable 
Your Bank is committed 
to upholding the highest 
standards of corporate 
governance and fostering 
a robust risk culture. 
Our governance framework 
is designed to ensure 
transparent decision-making, 
effective risk management, 
and ethical conduct across all 
levels of the organisation.
10
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Development Goals (UN SDGs) and the Paris Climate 
Agreement. In FY 2024-25, the Bank strengthened 
this commitment by undertaking significant actions, 
and progressing on its targets of reducing its financed 
emission intensity (electricity generation sector 
portfolio), migrating the Bank's facilities to renewable 
energy, enhancing its gender diversity and expanding 
financial inclusion amongst rural women borrowers. 
To deepen climate awareness at the highest level of 
governance, the Bank conducted a dedicated workshop 
on ‘Climate Risks and Opportunities’ for its Board of 
Directors and key management personnel, strengthening 
internal alignment on the transition to a low-carbon 
economy. The Bank also continued to be recognised 
for its benchmark sustainability disclosures, achieving 
the highest S&P Global ESG score and CDP rating for 
its climate disclosures, amongst Indian banks, for the 
third year in a row.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Through YES Foundation’s employability and 
entrepreneurship initiatives, over 25,000 individuals 
have benefited, including 7,000 youth trained and 
more than 18,000 farmers, women, and artisans who 
have seen increased incomes. Additionally, more than 
2 lakh trees have been planted, with a goal of reaching 
1 million by 2026, and over 30 crore litres of water have 
been conserved through water harvesting structures. 
Your Bank's ESG strategy is anchored in the 3Es – 
Employability, Entrepreneurship, and Environmental 
Sustainability having a positive impact on the overall 
development of the community being served and aligned 
with the UN SDGs and India’s national priorities.
Looking Ahead
As we look to the future, YES BANK is well-positioned to 
build on this momentum. With a strong balance sheet, 
a digitally-empowered platform, and a clear strategic 
vision, we are committed to delivering sustainable 
growth and long-term value for all stakeholders.
On behalf of the Board of Directors, I extend my heartfelt 
thanks to our shareholders, customers, employees, and 
partners for their unwavering support. We deeply value 
the continued trust of our shareholders, customers, and 
partners. Together, we are shaping a stronger, more 
inclusive, and more resilient YES BANK.
Sincerely,
Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
Chairman
In FY 2024-25, the 
Bank strengthened this 
commitment by undertaking 
significant actions, and 
progressing on its targets 
of reducing its financed 
emission intensity (electricity 
generation sector portfolio), 
migrating the Bank's facilities 
to renewable energy, 
enhancing its gender diversity 
and expanding financial 
inclusion amongst rural 
women borrowers. 
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11
Prashant Kumar
Managing Director & CEO
As we reflect on the 
progress made, I am 
proud to share that 
our efforts to build 
a resilient, agile, 
and future-ready 
banking institution 
are bearing fruit.
Message from 
MD & CEO
1
1GRI 2-22
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
12
YES BANK LIMITED
Dear Shareholders,
The financial year 2024-25 stands as a pivotal milestone 
in YES BANK’s evolution, marking five years of the 
institution’s renewed journey as the YES BANK of Today. 
Over these five years, despite multiple headwinds, we 
consistently focussed on strengthening Bank’s franchise 
and advancing strategic themes aimed at improving its 
overall positioning and performance, achieving steady 
improvements across key metrics and meaningful 
progress towards enhancing its profitability. As we reflect 
on the progress made, I am proud to share that our 
efforts to build a resilient, agile, and future-ready banking 
institution are bearing fruit.
This year’s performance is a testament to the strength 
of our core franchise, the commitment of our people, 
and the trust of our customers and partners, and most 
importantly, of our shareholders. Our strategy – centred 
around profitability-driven growth, digital innovation, 
and operational excellence – has enabled us to deliver 
improving trends across all key metrics.
Before delving further into our performance for the 
financial year, let me share a brief of the operating 
environment. In CY2024, global economic activity 
remained resilient, but falling inflation and slowing growth 
prompted central banks to cut rates. Geopolitical tensions 
and fragmentation have persisted in recent years. 
Since late January, Trump’s tariff announcements on 
various countries and commodities – framed as “reciprocal” 
levies – have lately been paused as trade negotiations 
continue. Amid persistent tariff uncertainties, the IMF has 
revised its global growth forecast for 2025 downward to 
2.8%, marking a 0.5 percentage point reduction from its 
January 2025 projection. On the domestic front, the Indian 
economy remained one of the fastest-growing globally, 
with strong macroeconomic fundamentals. India's growth 
for FY 2024-25 was at 6.5%, driven by consumption 
and investment. Government capex of ` 11.2 trillion for 
FY 2025-26, along with falling inflation, tax cuts, and 
the RBI’s easing measures – including a 100 bps repo 
rate cut (Feb–Jun 2025) and a 100 bps CRR cut in four 
equal tranches starting Sep' 2025, is expected to release 
approximately ` 2.5 trillion of durable liquidity into the 
Banking system - thereby adding further boost to the 
growth outlook for the year.
Key Highlights of FY 2024-25
Our strategic focus during FY 2024-25 remained firmly 
on enhancing profitability, improving asset quality, and 
building a future-ready organisation. We continued 
to execute our RoA expansion roadmap with rigour 
and discipline.
Key financial imperatives included improving the yield 
on advances by increasing the share of RoA-accretive 
products, being prudent on the cost of deposits through 
a focus on granular and low-cost Current Account & 
Savings Accounts (CASA), and expanding our non-interest 
income base through cross-sell, digital payments, and 
transaction banking.
We also maintained a sharp focus on cost and efficiency. 
Leveraging our digital capabilities, process automation, 
and business consolidation, we endeavoured towards 
further improvements in productivity and operating 
leverage. Our efforts to reduce credit costs through better 
sourcing, early warning systems, and enhanced collections 
also yielded positive results.
These initiatives lay the groundwork for a resilient and 
scalable banking franchise, positioning it to generate 
sustainable value and superior long-term returns 
for shareholders.
This year’s performance is a 
testament to the strength 
of our core franchise, 
the commitment of our 
people, and the trust of our 
customers and partners, 
and most importantly, of 
our shareholders.
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13
Financial Performance: A Year of Record Profitability
FY 2024-25 was a landmark year in terms of financial 
performance. The Bank reported a full-year Net Profit 
of ` 2,406 crore, representing a robust 92.3% Y-O-Y 
growth. This is the highest annual profit since the Bank’s 
reconstruction and reflects the success of our focussed 
strategy on sustainable and profitable growth.
For full year FY 2024-25, the Return on Assets (RoA) 
improved to 0.6%, with Q4 FY 2024-25 annualised RoA 
reaching 0.7%, indicating a steady upward trajectory in 
our profitability metrics. Our Net Interest Margin (NIM) 
remained stable at 2.4% for the year and the Bank exited 
Q4 FY 2024-25 with NIM of 2.5%, supported by a reduction 
in high-cost borrowings and a more favourable asset mix.
For FY 2024-25, Bank’s Non-Interest Income rose to 
` 5,857 crore, a 14.5% increase over the previous year. 
This growth was driven by strong momentum across 
corporate banking fees, foreign exchange income, debt 
capital markets, and securities services. Our diversified 
fee income streams continue to gain traction, contributing 
meaningfully to our overall revenue profile.
For FY 2024-25, Bank’s Pre-Provision Operating 
Profit (PPoP) stood at ` 4,254 crore, up by 25.6% over 
FY 2023-24. This growth was underpinned by 
improved operating leverage, cost discipline, and 
enhanced productivity.
Our Cost-to-Income ratio improved for the fourth 
straight quarter, closing FY 2024-25 at 71.3% – a 
notable improvement in excess of 300 bps, from 74.4% in 
FY 2023-24 – aligning with our guidance to steadily 
reduce it.
Balance 
Sheet 
Strength 
and 
Asset 
Quality 
Enhancement
Our balance sheet size increased to ` 4.23 lakh crore, a 
4.4% growth Y-O-Y with total deposits reaching ` 2.85 lakh 
crore, with CASA deposits at ` 0.97 lakh crore, reflecting 
the growing trust of our customers and the effectiveness 
of our strategic initiatives. The CASA ratio improved to 
34.3%, supported by the addition of 1.3 million new CASA 
accounts during the year. Bank continued its focus on 
quality, granularity, and cost, while leveraging the branch 
as a fulcrum of business – both on the liability as well as 
on the asset side.
On the advances side, the Bank continues to deliver as 
per the stated strategic objectives, with superior growth 
in SME and mid-corporate segments, growth resumption 
in the corporate segment and calibration of growth in the 
retail segment.
Retail advances stood at ` 1.02 lakh crore, and the 
combined share of Retail and SME advances remained at 
~60% of the total book. This mix aligns with our strategy of 
building a well-diversified loan portfolio.
Further, during FY 2024-25, Bank’s Asset Quality saw a 
marked improvement during the year, with Gross NPA 
declining to 1.6% and Net NPA falling to 0.3% – the lowest 
levels since the Bank’s reconstruction, while the Net 
Carrying Value of Security Receipt (as % age of Advances) 
now stands at Nil. The Provision Coverage Ratio (PCR) was 
stepped up to 79.7%, and including technical write-offs, 
stood at 87.6%. Recoveries and resolutions during the year 
were ~` 5,900 crore, exceeding our guidance and reflecting 
the effectiveness of our resolution strategy.
Today, 96% of all eligible 
savings accounts  
(with 72% accounts 
instantly activated) and 
95% of eligible current 
accounts (with 62% 
accounts activated within  
4 hours) onboarded 
through the digital mode.
14
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
We also achieved 100% compliance with Priority Sector 
Lending (PSL) norms, and the stock of RIDF deposits 
was reduced to 8.7% of Total Assets, witnessing a net 
reduction of ~` 7,000 crore in FY 2024-25. This progress 
will help reduce the drag on margins and improve 
profitability in the coming years.
Our capital position remains strong, with CET1 at 
13.5% and overall CRAR at ~15.6%, vis-à-vis 12.2% and 
15.4% respectively from a year ago, providing adequate 
headroom for future growth. During the year, both CA 
Basque Investments (affiliates of The Carlyle Group) 
& Verventa Holdings Limited (affiliates of Advent 
International) exercised their respective outstanding 
warrants which resulted in 100 bps accretion in CET 1.
Digital & Innovation: Reimagining the Banking 
Experience
YES BANK maintained its strong focus on cost 
optimisation and operational efficiency by harnessing 
digital capabilities. As a key contributor to Digital India, 
the Bank is re-establishing its leadership in the digital 
payments space – processing one in every three digital 
payment transactions nationwide. With this momentum, 
YES BANK aims to be a pivotal enabler in India’s evolving 
digital financial services ecosystem. We continue to 
maintain a strong presence in the digital payments’ 
ecosystem, with healthy market shares across key 
platforms – UPI (Payer PSP: 33.4%, Payee PSP: 56.9%), 
AePS (39.21%), NEFT (17.3%), IMPS (10.21%), and NACH 
(16.3%), in FY 2024-25. The Bank has digital journeys 
for seamless customer acquisition, servicing, and 
cross-sell in place for retail customers. Today, 96% of all 
eligible savings accounts (with 72% accounts instantly 
activated) and 95% of eligible current accounts (with 62% 
accounts activated within 4 hours) onboarded through 
the digital mode.
Digital Banking Enhancements
We launched our flagship all-in-one super App for 
Businesses called IRIS Biz bundling over 100+ features 
over mobile and web across payments, collections, tax 
payments and other business requirements. The Bank 
continues to see very good traction in its Next-Gen UPI 
payment apps namely YES PAY NEXT and YES PAY Biz, 
strategically targeting Non-YES BANK Retail as well as 
Business Customer.
‘Iris by YES BANK’ – our next-generation super app for 
retail, has also been gaining strong traction and adoption 
since its launch in Aug 2023 with over 37 lakh registered 
users, ~55% monthly active user (March 2025) and 
cumulatively having handled 416 lakh transactions and 
223 lakh service requests, as at the end of Q4 FY 2024-25.
Strategic Partnerships and Innovations
To enhance its offerings further, the Bank partnered 
with a leading player in the payments space as a PSP 
Payments Bank. This reflects its strong tech capabilities 
and has started to boost our digital payments, merchant 
acquisition, current account balances, and fee income. 
We introduced a co-branded credit card and partnered 
with digital platforms to deliver personalised financial 
solutions. Additionally, a strategic alliance with a global 
payments provider has enhanced our cross-border 
commerce capabilities, offering seamless payment 
solutions for exporters and importers.
Agency Bank Authorisation
YES BANK has been authorised as an Agency Bank for 
the collection of Central and State Government tax 
payments. To further this initiative, we launched YES Tax 
Pay – an integrated collection suite designed to simplify 
and streamline tax payments across various government 
portals – for both customers, as well as non-customers.
I would highlight that, more than the technology – these 
innovations are about reimagining the banking experience, 
making it more intuitive, seamless, and inclusive.
Human Capital: Building a Strong Culture
Our people are the cornerstone of our success. 
This year, we strengthened our leadership bench with 
strategic hires in Retail Assets, Financial Markets and 
Collections, bringing in fresh perspectives and deep 
expertise. We continued to invest in talent development, 
diversity, and employee engagement to nurture a 
vibrant, inclusive, and performance-driven culture. 
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15
With a strong focus on upskilling, objective performance 
management, and flexible work practices, we remain 
committed to empowering employees to grow and 
thrive. Stable leadership and a future-ready mindset are 
central to our approach. As an employer of choice, we will 
continue prioritising leadership development, learning 
programmes, and well-being initiatives to build a resilient, 
high-performing organisation.
Talent and Leadership Development Initiatives
The Bank implements a range of talent management and 
developmental learning initiatives tailored to the needs 
of employees, business units, and the organisation as a 
whole. Key programmes such as ‘Adaptive Leadership in 
Action’, ‘MAESTRO’, and ‘Leadership Acceleration’ focus 
on strategic thinking, change management, and team 
leadership. To further strengthen the Bank’s Risk and 
Compliance culture, a dedicated learning initiative was 
launched to equip employees with the knowledge required 
for regulatory adherence. These efforts reflect the Bank’s 
long-term vision of cultivating a strong leadership pipeline.
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) Initiatives
Women participation in the Bank’s workforce increased 
to 23.2% in FY 2024-25 from 21.8% in FY 2023-24. 
The Bank’s attrition rate further declined to 35.5% in 
FY 2024-25, from 38.2% in FY 2023-24. To bolster the 
Bank’s focus on Diversity, Equity & Inclusion, structured 
interventions were introduced to cultivate awareness, 
to sensitise employees on recognising and reducing the 
impact of unconscious biases. The aim was to promote 
more equitable and inclusive behaviours at the workplace. 
In addition to this, select women executives were identified 
and underwent a developmental journey that helped them 
evolve in their current and prepare them to take up larger 
assignments in future.
Workplace Excellence
The Bank's dedication to fostering a positive workplace 
culture has been recognised with its certification as a 
Great Workplace by ‘The Great Place to Work Institute’ 
(GPTW) for the third consecutive year in India. YES BANK 
also received a recognition by Great Place to Work for 
being among the Top 50 in 'India's Best Workplaces in 
BFSI 2025' for the third year in a row. This recognition by 
the GPTW Institute not only reaffirms our commitment to 
excellence in ‘people practices’, but it also highlights our 
dedication to nurture a High Trust Culture.
Sustainability & ESG: Leading with Responsibility
At YES BANK, our commitment to sustainability remains 
integral to how we do business. We continue to build 
a responsible and transparent enterprise that not only 
mitigates environmental and social risks, but also 
maximises positive impact across our operations and 
value chain. Over the past year, we have made measurable 
progress in enhancing our ESG performance and 
capitalising on emerging sustainable finance opportunities.
Strengthening Environmental Performance and 
Emission Reductions
Ensuring that our branches and offices adhere to the 
highest standards of environmental performance, the 
Bank marked its 12th year of being ISO 14001:2015 
certified with 1,186 facilities covered under its 
Environmental Management System. In line with its target 
of reducing emissions from its own operations to net zero 
by 2030, the Bank increased the share of renewables in its 
electricity mix (consumption) to over 20.21% registering 
over 16% reduction in its Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in 
The Bank continued to be 
recognised for its leadership 
across ESG and climate 
parameters in FY 2024-25, 
with the highest S&P Global 
ESG score and highest 
CDP ranking, amongst 
Indian banks, for the third 
consecutive year.
16
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
FY 2024-25. The Bank also continues to measure, report 
and develop targets for its portfolio in line with global 
decarbonisation pathways. In FY 2024-25, the Bank 
recorded a reduction of ~39% in the emission intensity of 
its fund-based electricity generation portfolio from the 
base year of FY 2021-22.
Recognised Leadership in ESG and Climate Action
The Bank continued to be recognised for its leadership 
across ESG and climate parameters in FY 2024-25, 
with the highest S&P Global ESG score and highest CDP 
ranking, amongst Indian banks, for the third consecutive 
year. It was also the only Indian bank to be included in 
the S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook 2025. The Bank’s 
efforts were further recognised with the ESG Excellence 
Award 2024 at the KPMG ESG Conclave, underscoring 
its leadership in sustainable finance and climate action. 
In May 2025, YES BANK received a rating of “A” in the MSCI 
ESG Ratings assessment and continued to be an index 
constituent of key global ESG indexes such as FTSE4Good 
Index Series and key MSCI indices, including the ACWI’s 
ESG Universal Index and Low Carbon Leaders Index.
Over the last year, YES BANK also made tangible progress 
on strengthening climate risk management, promoting 
sustainable finance and expanding its community 
development programmes to support inclusive growth.
Driving Inclusive Growth and Community Impact
The Bank has undertaken a CSR commitment to catalyse 
employment and entrepreneurship opportunities for 
over 100,000 youth by the year 2026 and has made 
steady headway, reaching over 68,000 youth and 
farmers, at the end of FY 2024-25. These achievements 
reflect YES BANK’s integrated approach of minimising 
environmental impact, enhancing transparency, and 
maximising positive contributions to society. As the Bank 
continues to evolve, it remains committed to driving 
long-term value creation through responsible banking 
and sustainable development.
Credit Ratings: Reflecting Financial Strength
The improvements in our financial and operational 
performance has been recognised by leading credit 
rating agencies. During the year, the Bank received ratings 
upgrades starting with global rating agency Moody’s 
changing the outlook from “Stable” to “Positive”, citing 
expectations of gradual improvement in the Bank’s 
depositor base and lending franchise. Further, ICRA and 
India Ratings upgraded credit rating of Bank’s Basel III 
Tier II Bonds and Infrastructure Bonds from A- to A (with 
positive outlook), while CRISIL and CARE also upgraded 
these instruments from A to A+ (with stable outlook).
These ratings reflect the market’s confidence in our 
strategy, governance, and execution capabilities.
Building the YES BANK of Tomorrow
As we look ahead, we remain focussed on executing 
our profitability-driven growth strategy with discipline 
and agility. Our approach to growth – both on the 
asset and liability side – will continue to be judicious, 
customer-centric, and anchored in risk-adjusted returns.
We will continue to anchor our business around a robust 
branch network, while accelerating digital adoption to 
elevate customer experience and operational efficiency. 
Our strategy blends digital innovation with physical 
expansion, ensuring convenience, trust, and accessibility 
for our customers. Our commitment to strengthening risk, 
audit, and compliance frameworks ensures that our growth 
remains responsible and sustainable. By embedding 
robust governance into our operations, we aim to build 
long-term resilience and stakeholder confidence.
As we progress into the next phase of our journey, 
we remain steadfast in our commitment to delivering 
enduring value to all our stakeholders.
Sincerely,
Prashant Kumar
Managing Director & CEO
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17
Dear Shareholders,
As a stronger, more resilient and future-ready institution, the 
YES BANK of Today plays a catalytic role in expanding access 
to financial services, particularly to the underbanked and 
underserved segments, while actively supporting inclusive and 
sustainable development. As a responsible financial institution, 
we are deeply committed to building a transparent, accountable 
and future-ready Universal Bank, with customer-centricity at its 
very core, and a sharp alignment to the evolving aspirations of 
both - our customers and the nation.
Our strengthening return ratios, pristine asset quality, robust 
capitalisation, enhanced funding profile and a deeply experienced 
management and leadership team, position us as a standout 
outlier in the Indian banking landscape. YES BANK has cemented 
its leadership position in digital payments and the merchant UPI 
ecosystem, commanding the largest share of such transactions, 
which have more than doubled over the past two years. 
As a truly future-ready Bank, we made transformational strides 
in our digital banking capabilities, powered by best-in-class tech 
prowess and a superlative digital product stack, as we continue 
to accelerate our journey of innovation – offering exceptional 
customer experience while enhancing convenience, accessibility 
and trust. Through the launch of super apps like IRIS and IRIS Biz, 
our comprehensive, next-generation mobile banking solutions, 
we empower our customers with seamless, unified financial 
access, enabling them to conduct banking on-the-go.
In FY 2024-25, we delivered resilient and broad-based 
growth across Retail Deposits and Retail & MSME lending, 
alongside stellar digital onboarding, unprecedented UPI 
transaction volumes, improved asset quality, and enhanced 
profitability, all underpinned by disciplined cost optimisation, 
proactive capital base reinforcement, and a sharper focus on 
customer-led innovation. 
We made consistent, steady advances across key financial 
metrics, progressing meaningfully on our strategic goal of 
accelerating profitability. Our Net Profit surged by 92.3% at 
` 2,406 crore vs ` 1,251 crore in FY 2023-24, while Operating 
Profit rose by 25.6% at ` 4,254 crore. Net Interest Income grew 
by 10.5% Y-O-Y, Return on Assets (RoA) doubled to 0.6% vs 
0.3% previously, and Return on Equity (RoE) climbed to 5.2% vs 
3.0% earlier – reflecting the solid momentum of our financial 
turnaround. Our key financial imperatives include enhancing 
yields on advances by increasing the share of RoA-accretive 
products and reducing the cost of deposits through a sharpened 
focus on granular, low-cost Current Account & Savings Accounts 
(CASA) growth. Lending to MSMEs and Mid-Corporates 
remains a core strategic priority, directly contributing to India’s 
Viksit Bharat vision.
Expanding our physical footprint continues to be central to 
our strategy of bringing the Bank closer to our customers. 
Through our 1,255 branches and 1,331 ATMs across 300 districts, 
we remain dedicated to delivering efficient, personalised, services 
and nurturing deeper, more enduring relationships – particularly 
with our mass-affluent and emerging-affluent segments. 
In FY 2024-25 alone, we added 37 new branches across 
geographies, significantly widening our reach and deepening 
our presence in Tier 2 and Tier 3 markets. We continue to 
strengthen our asset quality through rigorous risk management, 
sharper underwriting practices, and a disciplined approach to 
recovery and resolution. During the year, we achieved a notable 
reduction in NPAs which is now at the lowest since the Bank’s 
reconstruction, marking a key milestone in our ongoing stability.
At YES BANK, we have reimagined and re-architected our 
technology backbone, harnessed the power of data and advanced 
emerging technologies to enhance services, and optimised 
processes to deliver greater agility and faster turnaround times 
for our customers. As a key contributor to Digital India, the Bank 
has reclaimed its leadership in the digital payments ecosystem 
– processing one in every three digital payment transactions 
nationwide. With this momentum, we are poised to serve as 
a pivotal enabler in India’s rapidly evolving digital financial 
services landscape. 
Even as we scale new heights, our focus remains steadfast 
on building a responsible, resilient and future-proof Bank. 
As a committed corporate citizen, we are intensifying our CSR 
initiatives and ESG commitments, driving greener, more inclusive 
growth, and strengthening strategic partnerships across digital 
payments, embedded finance, and global banking corridors.
Looking ahead, our unwavering priority is to further grow our 
asset and liability base, maintain sharp cost rationalisation, 
fortify our balance sheet, and restore enduring stakeholder 
trust and confidence. We extend our deepest gratitude to our 
employees, customers, shareholders and partners, for their 
steadfast support and belief in the Bank’s journey.
With best wishes,
Dr. Rajan Pental
Executive Director
Message from 
Executive Director
18
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Dear Shareholders,
It is with great humility and a deep sense of responsibility that 
I write to you for the first time as the Executive Director of YES 
BANK, a role I had the honour of assuming in December 2024. 
I am privileged to lead Wholesale Banking – a core pillar of the 
Bank’s long-term growth strategy. Over the past two years, I had 
the opportunity to work alongside a highly committed team, to 
build a franchise that is focussed on resilience, innovation, and 
trust. Our disciplined approach, centred on client acquisition, 
value enhancement, and cross-product integration, continues to 
drive sustainable and return-accretive growth.
We have made meaningful progress across client segments, 
using our deep and comprehensive product expertise to uptier 
proposition and positioning, to be a core banking partner 
and trusted advisor for clients. We are building scale in Large 
Corporates segment, while maintaining a granular and well 
diversified portfolio. We continue with an ecosystem approach 
serving entire value chains. Our Mid-Corporates segment has 
emerged as a growth engine, supported with strong regional 
presence and risk management capabilities. Through Indian 
Financial Institutions segment, we have strengthened our 
correspondent banking relationships and partnerships with 
NBFCs and MFIs – enhancing PSL compliance, financial inclusion, 
and growth through co-lending and digital solutions. We are 
expanding our global footprint through International Banking 
with seamless cross-border trade and remittance solutions. 
We maintained market leadership position in the space of Fintech, 
New Economy companies and Digital Payments leveraging our 
strength in technology. Government Banking segment continues 
to make significant strides including Agency Bank mandate for 
tax collection and EPFO empanelment. Our ~700 Relationship 
Bankers across diverse client segments, along with product 
specialists in Transaction Banking, Financial Markets and Project 
Finance, have enabled this integrated, client-centric success.
As we progress, we remain vigilant on credit risk and asset 
quality. We have adopted robust models, exposure caps, and 
post-disbursement checks. Our granular portfolio strategy 
has helped reduce the concentration risk and we managed to 
enhance efficiency leveraging technology, while transforming 
client experience with the help of API and transaction banking 
platforms. We are also aligned in our lending practices with the 
Bank's ESG goals, financing green projects, and applying climate 
risk frameworks.
FY 2024-25 reflects a well-executed strategy, driving growth 
across Wholesale Banking. Non-Interest Income rose sharply, 
with Corporate Trade & Cash Management up 17.1% Y-O-Y and 
Forex, DCM & Securities up 16.7%. Corporate and Mid-Corporate 
segments now form ~40% of the portfolio. As at March 31, 2025, 
Corporate Advances reached ` 59,073 crore (+11.5% Y-O-Y), 
and Mid-Corporate Advances ` 41,905 crore (+21.8% Y-O-Y). 
Non-Funded Corporate and Mid-Corporate Books grew 8.3% 
and 27.0% respectively. Asset quality improved significantly with 
Corporate GNPA declining to 1.1% (from 2.4%), and Mid-Corporate 
GNPA to 1.0% (from 1.5%). On liability side, the Corporate CASA 
Ratio stood at 31.4% while the Mid Corporate CASA Ratio was 
at 25.7%. Digital and Transaction Banking are now embedded 
in 98% of Corporate CASA relationships, reinforcing our strong 
digital franchise.
As we look ahead, YES BANK is well-positioned to grow through 
high-quality corporate lending, and we remain confident in our 
ability to drive long-term growth and profitability, with your 
trust and support. 
Yours sincerely,
Manish Jain
Executive Director 
Message from 
Executive Director
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19
20
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Board of Directors
Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
Part time Chairman, 
Independent Director
Mr. Prashant Kumar
Managing Director & CEO
Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani
Independent Director
Mr. Atul Malik
Independent Director
Dr. Rajan Pental
Executive Director
Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao
Independent Director
Mr. Sharad Sharma
Independent Director
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21
Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar
Nominee Director of 
State Bank of India
Mr. Manish Jain
Executive Director
Ms. Nandita Gurjar
Independent Director
Ms. Rekha Murthy
Independent Director
Mr. Sandeep Tewari
Nominee Director of 
State Bank of India
Mr. Shivakumar Dega
Nominee of Verventa 
Holdings Limited
	 Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani
	 Mr. Sandeep Tewari
	 Mr. Atul Malik
	 Ms. Nandita Gurjar
	 Mr. Atul Malik
	 Mr. Sandeep Tewari
AUDIT COMMITTEE 
NOMINATION & 
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE 
	 Mr. Sharad Sharma
	 Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao
	 Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar
	 Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao
	 Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar
	 Mr. Manish Jain
RISK MANAGEMENT 
COMMITTEE 
STAKEHOLDERS 
RELATIONSHIP  
COMMITTEE 
Board Committees
	 Ms. Rekha Murthy
	 Mr. Sharad Sharma
	 Ms. Rekha Murthy
	 Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
	 Mr. Shivakumar Dega
	 Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
	 Mr. Atul Malik
	 Ms. Nandita Gurjar
	 Dr. Rajan Pental
	 Ms. Nandita Gurjar
	 Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar
	 Mr. Sharad Sharma
CUSTOMER SERVICE 
COMMITTEE 
	 Ms. Rekha Murthy
	 Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao
	 Ms. Nandita Gurjar
CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY AND 
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL & 
GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE 
	 Dr. Rajan Pental
	 Mr. Manish Jain
	 Mr. Shivakumar Dega
	 Dr. Rajan Pental
	 Mr. Manish Jain
 
  Chairperson         
 
  Member
22
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
	 Mr. Sandeep Tewari
	 Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani
	 Mr. Prashant Kumar
	 Mr. Atul Malik
SPECIAL COMMITTEE  
OF THE BOARD FOR 
MONITORING AND  
FOLLOW-UP OF FRAUDS  
(W.E.F SEPTEMBER 10, 2024)
REVIEW COMMITTEE  
FOR CLASSIFICATION  
AND DECLARATION OF 
WILFUL DEFAULTERS  
(W.E.F SEPTEMBER 10, 2024)
IT STRATEGY 
COMMITTEE
CAPITAL RAISING 
COMMITTEE 
	 Ms. Rekha Murthy
	 Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani
	 Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
	 Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
	 Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani
	 Mr. Sandeep Tewari
	 Mr. Manish Jain
	 Mr. Shivakumar Dega
	 Mr. Sharad Sharma
	 Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar
	 Dr. Rajan Pental
	 Mr. Prashant Kumar
	 Mr. Atul Malik
	 Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar
BOARD CREDIT 
COMMITTEE 
	 Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao
	 Mr. Prashant Kumar
	 Mr. Shivakumar Dega
	 Mr. Prashant Kumar
	 Mr. Manish Jain
 
  Chairperson         
 
  Member
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23
Management Team
Mr. Prashant Kumar
Managing Director & CEO
Dr. Rajan Pental
Executive Director
Mr. Manish Jain 
Executive Director
Ms. Archana Shiroor 
Chief Human Resources  
Officer
Mr. Tushar Patankar
Chief Risk Officer
Mr. Sachin Raut
Chief Operating Officer
Mr. Rakesh Arya 
Chief Credit Risk Officer
Mr. Niranjan Banodkar
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Sumit Bali 
Country Head Retail Assets  
and Debt Management 
Mr. Anil Kumar Singh
Country Head - Credit Cards
and Merchant Acquiring
Mr. Nipun Kaushal 
Chief Marketing Officer and  
Head CSR
Mr. Dheeraj Sanghi
Country Head - Retail Liabilities,  
Fee and Business Banking 
Mr. Gaurav Goel 
Country Head Commercial   
Banking
Mr. Ajay Rajan
Country Head - Transaction  
Banking, Government,  
Multinational & New Economy  
Business, IFSC Branch &  
Knowledge Units
Mr. Indranil Pan
Chief Economist 
24
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Mr. Mahesh Ramamoorthy 
Chief Information Officer
Mr. Ashish Dadhich  
Country Head Financial  
Institutions 
Mr. Kapil Juneja 
Chief Internal Auditor
Mr. Nirav Dalal  
Country Head Financial  
Markets 
Mr. Santosh Kumar Mishra 
Business Head PSL and  
Microfinance 
Mr. Rajat Chhalani
Chief Compliance Officer
Mr. Sanjay Abhyankar 
Company Secretary 
Mr. Binu Soman
Chief Vigilance Officer 
Mr. Parminder Singh
Country Head Large  
Corporates 
Mr. Naveen Chaluvadi
Chief Digital Officer
Mr. Mukesh Kumar 
National Head Project Finance 
and Loan Syndication 
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25
Key Performance Indicators 
FY21
FY25
2,406
FY23
717
FY22
1,066
 (3,462)
FY24
1,251
Net Profit (` in crore) 
FY25
4,254
FY23
3,183
FY22
2,916
FY21
4,648
FY24
3,386
Operating Profit (` in crore) 
FY25
14,801
FY23
11,603
FY22
9,760
FY21
10,440
FY24
13,209
Total Income (` in crore) 
FY25
284,525
FY23
217,502
FY22
197,192
FY21
162,947
FY24
266,372
Deposits (` in crore)
FY25
86.5
FY23
92.0
FY22
91.8
FY21
102.4
FY24
85.5
CD Ratio (%)
FY25
246,188
FY23
203,269
FY22
181,052
FY21
166,893
FY24
227,799
Advances (` in crore) 
FY25
423,422
FY23
354,786
FY22
318,220
FY21
273,543
FY24
405,493
Total Assets (` in crore) 
FY25
34.3
FY23
30.8
FY22
31.1
FY21
26.1
FY24
30.9
CASA Ratio (%)
26
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
FY25
4,254
FY23
FY22
FY21
42:09:49
FY24
Retail & SME : Mid Corp : Corp (%)
FY25
13.5
FY23
13.3
FY22
11.6
FY21
11.2
FY24
12.2
CET1 Ratio (%)
FY25
1.6
FY23
2.2
FY22
13.9
FY21
15.4
FY24
1.7
Gross NPA (%)
FY25
0.6
FY23
0.2
FY22
0.4
FY21
(1.3)
FY24
0.3
Return on Assets (%)
FY25
2.4
FY23
2.6
FY22
2.3
FY21
2.8
FY24
2.4
Net Interest Margin (%)
FY25
125.0
FY23
118.5
FY22
114.6
FY21
113.9
FY24
116.1
Liquidity Coverage Ratio* (%) 
FY25^
0.3
FY23
2.4
FY22
4.8
FY21
6.8
FY24
1.1
Net NPA + Net Carrying Value of SRs (%)
FY25
5.2
FY23
 2.0
FY22
 3.2
FY21
 (11.4)
FY24
 3.0
Return on Equity (%)
* Quarterly Average Consolidated LCR for the Quarter ending March 31 of respective financial Year 
^ Net carrying value of SR as at March 31, 2025 is NIL
62:15:23
49:11:40
59:14:27
59:17:24
Retail & SME 
Mid Corp
Large Corp
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27
Products
and Services
1
1GRI 2-6
28
YES BANK LIMITED
RETAIL 
BANKING
Under Retail Banking, YES BANK offers a comprehensive 
suite of deposit products, SME advances, retail asset 
and credit card solutions – delivering personalised and 
business banking offerings across customer segments.
Retail and Branch Banking Deposits 
contributed 59% of Total Deposits as 
of March 31, 2025
Retail Advances accounted for 41% of Total 
Advances as of March 31, 2025
SME advances registered steady and 
strong growth, with the funded book 
rising 23.6% Y-O-Y
BRANCH 
BANKING
YES BANK’s branch banking offers a comprehensive 
suite of all banking products - including liabilities, assets 
and fee-based offerings. The channel maintains a sharp 
strategic focus on affluent, emerging affluent and mass 
affluent customers, and SMEs particularly in metro 
and urban markets.
Scale
	y
Expanded to 1,255 Branches
	y
Network includes 235 Business Correspondent 
Banking Outlets across 300+ districts
	y
ATM, CRM & BNA network totals 1,331 units
	y
Added 37 new branches in FY 2024-25 to deepen 
market penetration
Products and Services
All products of the Bank including Retail Liabilities, 
Retail Assets, Business Banking, Credit Cards, Merchant 
and Third-party products are offered by branch banking 
as it is the fulcrum of business.
Key Highlights
In perspective, deposits growth Y-O-Y basis 
(Q4 FY 2024-25 vs Q4 FY 2023-24) for the industry* 
stood at 10.4% and for private bank’s* 12.0%; versus 
the same, the bank registered growth of 6.8% and 
YBL Branch Banking 17.9%. Overall YBL Branch 
Banking led Deposits registered growth of 19.5% CAGR 
(FY 2022-23 to FY 2024-25) versus 12.0% CAGR in 
Industry* and 16.0% CAGR for private bank’s*.
18% growth in Retail and Branch 
Banking deposits
21% Growth in Branch Banking fee income
19% Y-O-Y growth in CASA New Acquisition 
value (NAV) ~ normalised for comparability
Significant increase in Retail Assets 
disbursement via Branch Banking: internal 
sourcing rose to 46% in Q4 FY 2024-25, up 
from 43% last year in similar period
*Data Source: RBI (BSR)-2 – Deposits with SCBs and CAGR 
based on Total Bank Deposits
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
29
DIGITAL 
BANKING
YES BANK has made significant investments in new-age 
digital technologies to enhance customer engagement 
and experience. The Bank caters to a wide range 
of transactional needs, including domestic money 
transfers and Aadhaar-enabled cash withdrawals. 
Seamless digital journeys have been implemented for 
liability customer acquisition and cross sell, incorporating 
multiple system checks, real-time validations and 
verification. Both Assisted and Do-It-Yourself (DIY) 
onboarding journeys are available for Savings and 
Current Accounts, tailored to suit individual as well as 
non-individual onboarding customer segments.
Scale
	y
YES BANK processes nearly every 3rd digital 
transaction 
in 
the 
country 
(amounting 
to 
approximately 16 billion transactions monthly)
	y
Today, 96% of all eligible savings accounts and 95% 
of eligible individual and sole proprietor current 
accounts are onboarded through the digital mode
YES BANK’s Digital Products and their market share 
for FY 2024-25:
Products and Services
33.4%
UPI (Payer PSP) 
17.3% 
NEFT 
56.9%
UPI (Payee PSP) 
10.21% 
IMPS 
39.21%
AEPS 
16.3%
NACH 
SPECTRUM 
BANKING
Spectrum Banking is a dedicated business unit that 
manages the complete customer lifecycle – from 
acquisition and onboarding, to relationship management, 
customer value management, retention, and service. 
The segment operates remotely and manages key 
customer segments, including relationships of YES 
First, YES First Business, YES Premia, YES Prosperity, 
Corporate Salary Account and NRI Banking customers.
Core verticals within Spectrum Banking – Liability 
Acquisition, Virtual Relationship Management, Insurance 
and Video KYC - are ISO 9001:2015 certified, adhering to 
industry leading best practices.
Scale
The Spectrum Banking team managed relationships 
of over 8.5 lakh customers and engaged with over 
35 lakh customers virtually. The team maintains a 
strong focus on expanding the Liability book (higher 
CASA focus), driving asset disbursals, increasing income 
from third-party products, sourcing Credit Cards and 
Merchant Acquiring business for the Bank keeping client 
coverage, centricity and wallet share in focus.
Products and Services
Products include Retail Liabilities, Retail Assets, 
Business Banking, Credit Cards, Merchant Services and 
Third-party products managed virtually through the 
spectrum of voice, chat and email.
Spectrum Banking registered 17% growth 
in Liabilities Book and 9% growth in Retail 
Assets disbursement during FY 2024-25
30
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
New Initiatives
	y
Launched AePS transactions for Self Help Groups 
and introduced Face Authentication-based AePS 
cash withdrawals on the YES Money Business 
Correspondent (BC) network
	y
Launched YES PAY Biz, a one stop solution for 
merchants, enabling merchants for seamless 
collection 
and 
on-demand 
settlements 
with 
multilingual interface and voice notifications. 
Till March 2025, Bank has onboarded around 
51,000 merchants
	y
Launched UPI acquiring stack to enable UPI 
collections for aggregators, merchants and Third 
Party Application providers
	y
Successfully transitioned 1.69 crore active Paytm 
merchants and activated UPI collection capabilities 
for both offline and online transactions
Digital Liability On-boarding Journeys
	y
To achieve superlative customer experience and 
stickiness, our on-boarding journeys are equipped 
with various advanced and innovative solutions
	y
Assisted on-boarding platforms fetch profile from 
online sources and recommend suitable product 
offerings. With a YES BANK Savings Account, 
customers can also open Demat & Trading Account, 
and avail retail loans and insurance products. 
Similarly, with a Current Account, customers can 
complete the journey for opening a Savings Account, 
Foreign Exchange Currency Accounts, Cash Credit/ 
Overdraft Accounts and avail services for online 
transaction platforms
	y
Do-It-Yourself (DIY) on-boarding platforms with 
Video KYC enables customer to complete the entire 
journey remotely, expanding acquisition channels 
acquisition through performance-based marketing 
and multiple partners-led sourcing
YES 
PRIVATE
YES Private is the Bank’s flagship by-invite 
programme -designed especially for High/Ultra High 
Net Worth Individuals (HNIs/UHNIs). The programme 
is thoughtfully curated, bringing together a blend of 
bespoke wealth expertise, full stack banking & enterprise 
solutions and unmatched global lifestyle experiences, 
backed by a team of relationship and product specialists 
along with a robust service architecture.
Scale
YES Private programme registered significant growth 
in both number of customers as well as the size of 
the managed portfolio, on the back of a powerful 
programme proposition and a seasoned, highly trained 
Yes Private team. 
The programme is now available to on-board clients in 
11 locations across the country.
Products and Services
	y
YES Private offers clients a comprehensive basket 
of wealth management solutions to help manage, 
protect and grow their wealth and assets
	y
YES Private Business is a thoughtfully curated 
enterprise banking programme with a full array 
of business banking solutions backed by a robust 
service architecture
	y
The Mastercard World Elite Debit Card is one of the 
most powerful debit cards available, offers a highly 
curated value proposition with access to global 
experiences aligned with clients’ lifestyles
New Initiatives
	y
YES Private Business was launched as an enterprise 
solutions programme, thereby extending the YES 
Private offering to enterprises and creating a 
360 degree programme architecture
	y
Curated client engagement at marquee events 
across diverse lifestyle interests, numerous benefits 
embedded through the World Elite Debit Card are 
some of the new initiatives under the programme
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31
YES First and  
YES First Business
YES First and YES First Business are the Bank’s flagship 
wealth management and business banking programmes, 
curated for Affluent customers for their personal and 
business banking needs. These specialised programmes 
are imbibed with a comprehensive customer-centric 
approach and offer curated product offerings and 
services, coupled with a host of lifestyle benefits, 
to provide a delightful experience to our customers. 
The portfolio makes significant contribution to Retail 
and Branch Banking Liabilities and Fees. The programme 
propositions have been further enriched by adding 
relevant benefits for eligible customers through the 
lifecycle across multiple consumption categories. 
Scale
The portfolio now comprises of 3 lakh+ customers with 
significant contribution to the Retail & Branch Banking 
Liabilities and Fees.
Products and Services
	y
Exquisite lifestyle benefits
	y
Banking solutions for personal and business needs
	y
Preferential pricing over a wide range of products 
and services
	y
Prioritised service across touch points
	y
Accelerated YES Rewardz
Refreshed proposition led to doubling of 
YES First Business new acquisitions.
YES  
Premia
YES Premia offers segmented solutions to the mass 
affluent segment with an emphasis on making 
banking seamless and enjoyable for our customers. 
The programme has been carefully curated to provide 
banking solutions complementing the lifestyles and 
expectations of varied customer segments.
Scale
The portfolio now comprises ~ 4.7 lakh customers with 
important contribution to the Retail & Branch Banking 
Liabilities and Fees.
Products and Services
	y
Priority servicing
	y
Products and Preferential pricing
	y
Privileges
	y
Powerful digital banking platforms and solutions
Since launch, around 
60,000 customers have 
signed-up for the programme.
YES  
Grandeur
YES Grandeur was launched in April 2024 to cater to 
the divergent needs of the Emerging Affluent segment. 
It is a pioneering programme offering milestone-led 
benefits, banking privileges and top tier Debit card 
features, designed to leverage on the growing demand 
of this niche demographic.
Products and Services
	y
Simplified banking
	y
Diverse product suite
	y
Majestic milestone benefits
	y
Digital solutions
32
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
YES 
Prosperity
YES Prosperity is the Bank’s mass retail proposition, 
offering services for customers’ individual and business 
banking needs. The feature-packed exclusive segmented 
savings account proposition is designed to improve 
granular deposits from segments like salaried, senior 
citizens, women and regular customers of the Bank. 
Furthermore, for the business clients, it offers current 
account variants such as Freedom Flexi - a first-of-
its-kind five-tier product suite with an auto-upgrade 
and auto-downgrade facility to ensure the right product 
fit for every stage of the business lifecycle, along with 
other curated segmental offerings.
Variants offered to Savings Account customers:
	y
PRO Max, PRO Plus, PRO – Savings Accounts
	y
YES Essence – Womens’ Account
	y
YES Respect – Senior Citizen’s Account
	y
Savings Value / Kisan Savings Account
	y
My First YES – Minor’s Account
	y
Smart Salary Accounts (Platinum Pro, Platinum, 
Exclusive, 
Advantage), 
YES 
Vijay 
(Exclusive, 
Advantage, Pension, Agniveer) & YES Honour 
Accounts (Platinum, Exclusive)
Variants offered to Current Account customers:
	y
Freedom Flexi five-tier product suite
	y
Merchant Accounts (Easy and Prime)
	y
EEFC Accounts
	y
Emerging Markets – Pragati, Pragati Vyapar & Udaan
	y
Special Purpose Accounts – Yes Head Startup, 
Xtra Gain
Products and Services
	y
Offers a wide range of products that cater to a 
diverse customer base
	y
Customer-centric 
product 
portfolio 
to 
fulfil 
all customer needs to become a primary bank 
for the customer
	y
Customised solutions for focussed segments like 
Salaried, Senior Citizen, Women, among others
Key Highlights
	y
To improve the granular deposits, bank has 
modified the corporate salary business model, 
with revamped product offering and Go to 
market (GTM) strategy
	y
Revamped 
merchant 
proposition 
has 
driven 
significant growth in the retail trader segment
	y
YES 
Rewardz 
- 
an 
industry 
first 
loyalty 
program 
extended 
to 
non-individual 
current 
account customers
NRI 
Banking
The NRI Banking programme is a power-packed 
customised offering that provides multiple avenues 
for Non-Resident Indians (NRIs). It helps the NRIs 
curate and manage wealth across product categories 
through in-person and digital fulfilment models. 
This comprehensive product is complemented by a 
multi-channel servicing capability and benefits that 
extend beyond banking. 
Products and Services
Comprehensive and superior experiential banking 
services for NRIs and Persons of Indian Origin (PIOs):
	y
Banking services: Deposits, Portfolio Investment 
Scheme (PIS), remittances and wealth management 
products along with best-in class NRI FX rates
	y
Liability product suite: Savings, fixed and recurring 
deposit offerings denominated in INR, and fixed 
deposits in eight foreign currencies
	y
International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) 
Banking Unit (IBU): savings account and term 
deposits available in five currencies; internet 
banking introduced
240% growth in the NR liabilities book at IBU.
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
33
Debit  
Cards
YES BANK has a complete suite of Debit Card variants 
across all three networks viz. Mastercard, Visa and 
RuPay which cater to the varied needs of its customers. 
The Bank has card variants across all segments of 
customers including mass & emerging affluent, affluent, 
Private and even for segmented offerings such as 
Women, Salaried Individuals, NRIs, among others.
Products and Services
	y
Customised debit cards across, YES Private, 
YES First, YES Grandeur, YES Premia and YES 
Prosperity, to meet the specific needs of these 
customer segments
	y
These NFC-enabled cards offer unique benefits 
across categories, including reward points on 
spends, complimentary lounge access & golf lessons 
(on select debit cards), exciting offers on retail 
categories such as entertainment, groceries, etc. 
Further, a key feature of the Bank’s card variants 
include insurance cover across purchase protection, 
accidental insurance & lost card liability
Features
	y
Customers are provided easy access to manage 
their card spends and security control
	y
Easy access to their card settings and debit card 
services across WhatsApp Banking/BOT and a 
dedicated email ID for blocking/hot-listing cards in 
the event of any unforeseen situation is also provided
	y
To promote paper-less banking, customers are 
allowed to set a debit card pin (green pin) across YES 
Online, IRIS & ATMs
New Initiatives
The Bank has launched systematic installment payments 
on its debit cards in the last FY thereby enabling 
customers to automate their routine monthly payments 
on their debit cards. The Bank has also revamped & 
launched new card designs across its portfolio.
In FY 2024-25, the Bank added 14.3 lakh 
new debit cards, increasing its overall 
card base to 50.80 lakh
ATM
YES BANK has a spread of 1,331 On-site and 
Offsite ATMs with 81% of them being recyclers 
which also accept cash deposits across the breadth 
and width of the country and recorded 21 million 
transactions in FY 2024-25.
Products and Services
	y
Cash withdrawal, Cash deposit, cross sell, Debit Card 
Upgrade & PIN set-reset, cheque book requests, 
Fixed Deposit and Pre approved personal loan
New Initiatives
In FY 2024-25, STP journey for Debit card upgrade; UPI 
based Cardless Cash Withdrawal launched. ATM and 
Branch locator services to help customers access their 
nearest ATMs and launch of Tamil as a language 
for customers in state of Tamil Nadu in addition to 
Marathi as a language for customers in the state of 
Maharashtra launched.
94% uptime, one of the best 
in the industry
34
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Retail Banking 
Assets
Retail Banking Assets serves the retail consumer 
and commercial business groups through Mortgage, 
Unsecured Loans, and other Consumer and Commercial 
Loan products. Retail Banking Assets products are 
offered across 650+ locations through branches and 
channel partners.
Products and Services
The segment offers retail loan products such As Home 
Loan, Affordable Home Loan, Car Loan, Commercial 
Vehicle Loan, Construction Equipment Loan, Loan 
Against Property, Personal Loan and Business Loan, 
Education Loan, among others, under a single roof.
New Initiatives
	y
Product and sourcing mix calibration oriented 
towards profitability improvement
	y
Digital loan onboarding, powered by Salesforce, is 
live for Home Loan, Affordable Home Loan, Loan 
against Property and Personal Loan
	y
Strengthened collections infrastructure with new 
collection management system and a new mobility 
app for field force to drive efficiency
	y
Leverage norms, bureau inquiries and use of AI/ML 
for scorecard strengthening and policy modifications 
in line with industry developments
~32,500 crore Total Sanctions and 
Disbursements in FY 2024-25
YES 
Genie
YES Genie is the super-app for internal employees 
of the Bank in customer engagement and serves as 
cornerstone for them to provide superior customer 
experience. It enables the staff with customer-level 
information, insights, actionable as well as tracking 
and fulfilment capabilities in an entirely paperless, 
fully digital and in Straight Through Processing (STP) 
mode. Genie is fully in-house designed and developed 
microservices-based platform customised for Banks' 
needs and catering to ever-growing & fast-changing 
digital requirements.
Genie provides Next Best Actions enabling 
hyper-personalisation as a service to all digital channels 
in the Bank, these are customer level alerts/actionable 
which includes Cross Sell Offers/Recommendations, 
Nudges, Service/regulatory alerts.
Key Highlights
YES Genie is currently widely used by all YES BANK staff 
across various units for bespoke use cases.
New Initiatives
In FY 2024-25, Genie has launched STP journeys for 
Debit Card Reissuance/Upgrade, Post Purchase EMI 
conversion of Credit Card transactions, Purchase 
Mutual Funds and Issuance of Multi Currency Travel 
Card. In addition to this, Genie’s NBA framework 
automated over 45 use cases for identifying customers/
accounts eligible for specific offers or displaying certain 
behaviour. Predictive Current Account attrition alerts, 
Identification of Potential and Eligible for Program 
Upgrade Customers, Pre-Approved DigiOD offers were 
some of the high impact NBAs for the year.
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
35
Rural Banking 
Assets
The Rural Banking Assets segment is designed to meet 
the diverse financial needs of Indian farmers through 
Kisan Credit Cards and farm mechanisation loans. 
These products support crop production, horticulture, 
commercial crops, agri-allied activities, and farm 
mechanisation, enabling farmers to access timely credit 
and adopt modern agricultural practices.
Scale
The portfolio serves farmers across 13 states, with 
recent expansion into new geographies and pin codes 
to improve accessibility. The current active farmer 
borrower base is ~80,000, with a portfolio size of 
` 5,400+ crore as of March 31, 2025.
Products and Services
Kisan Credit Card (KCC):
	y
KCC Interest Subvention Loan
	y
Regular KCC Loan
	y
Separate funding solutions for Horticulture and 
Commercial Crops
	y
Credit facilities for Agri-Allied Activities
Farm Mechanisation Loans:
	y
Term Loans for the purchase of: New and Used 
Tractors & Harvester to facilitate mechanisation and 
modernisation of farming practice
New Initiatives
KCC:
	y
Launched 
crop-specific 
products 
tailored 
for 
Horticulture and Commercial Crops
	y
Extended funding support to Agri-Allied Activities
Farm Mechanisation:
	y
Launching of new product specific variants to 
addressing specific farmer requirements
	y
Expanded presence to additional states and pin 
codes, enhancing rural outreach
Active borrower base is  
~80,000 farmers
Achieved a portfolio book size 
of ` 5,400+ crore
Widened reach through 
presence in 13 states
Agri-Business 
Product 
Management
The segment offers customised lending propositions 
for agri value-chain participants – farmers, SMEs and 
corporates. It has a granular loan portfolio against the 
pledge of agri-commodities across geographies, while 
ensuring adequate risk mitigation. This end-to-end 
process is carried out on digital platforms ensuring 
exemplary service delivery and superior experience 
to our customers.
Scale
The sanctioned limits of commodity finance portfolio 
aggregate to ` 6,500+ crore across a base of 
1,300+ clients. The portfolio’s outstanding as on 
March end stood at ` 2,141 crore spread across 640 
active customers.
Products and Services
	y
Agri Value Chain Financing
	y
Agri Commodity Pledge Financing
New Initiatives
	y
Expanded our footprint in Eastern India, wherein 
we have successfully sanctioned limits totaling to 
` 75 crore and achieved a throughput of ` 26 crore
	y
While the Bank is end-to-end digital in commodity 
pledge financing, it is also getting future-ready to 
serve its customers through e-NWR* (a government 
initiative through WDRA) in fully digital mode
* NWR (Negotiable Warehouse Receipt) and  
WDRA (Warehousing Development and Regulatory Authority)
Exemplary asset quality with 0.05% 
delinquency in FY 2024-25
36
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Inclusive 
and Social 
Banking
The Bank focusses on frugal, inclusive and catalytic 
innovations, supported by strategic partnerships, to 
create and scale sustainable business models. It aims to 
enhance access to finance for underserved, bottom-of-
the-pyramid segments. The Inclusive and Social Banking 
(ISB) business is integrated with rural branches to 
broaden the distribution channel through Business 
Correspondent (BC) branches.
Products and Services
	y
Through its flagship group lending programme 
‘YES Microfinance’, it provides financial services to 
women microfinance borrowers
	y
Through its 572 BC branches with 11 corporate BC 
partners, bank provides Asset and Liability solution 
to deep underserved rural geographies
	y
Bank also offers optional insurance products 
including a customised loan cover life insurance 
product and tailored health cover product to its 
microfinance customers
New Initiatives
	y
Offers Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana saving 
account to unbanked rural customers
	y
Offers tailored Micro Recurring Deposit product 
to 
women 
microfinance 
borrowers 
with 
an 
objective of inculcating regular saving behavior in 
rural geographies
6.4 lakh active women customer base 
under YES microfinance
` 17,683 crore Cumulative Disbursement 
since inception under YES Microfinance
Credit  
Cards
YES BANK’s Credit Card division continues to focus 
on customer delight through a diverse product 
suite, seamless digital experiences, and robust risk 
management. This strategy has driven higher card 
usage, increased spending, and strong activation rates.
Scale
The Credit Card business has achieved significant 
growth in key metrices:
	y
30% Y-O-Y growth in outstanding balances
	y
41% Y-O-Y growth in card spends
	y
5.6% Y-O-Y growth in spends per card (SPC)
Products and Services
Over 30 credit card products tailored for:
	y
Consumers
	y
SMEs
	y
Commercial segments
New Initiatives
	y
August 2024: Introduced network selection during 
application journey
	y
All co-branded cards launched in FY 2024-25 follow 
an end-to-end digital-only journey
	y
Continuous upgrades to Digital Banking channels for 
24*7 service request access
95%+ of new credit card approvals 
processed digitally
Onboarding options include DIY, Assisted, 
Biometric and Video KYC
Over 5 lakh UPI-enabled RuPay Credit 
Cards issued in FY 2024-25 and 19% of 
Consumer Credit Card spends now via 
UPI on RuPay cards
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
37
Merchant 
Acquiring 
Services
YES BANK is one of India's leading providers of Merchant 
Acquiring Services, with a best-in-class product suite, 
and backed by high service standards and a robust 
technological infrastructure. Merchant Acquisition 
plays an integral role in providing an all-encompassing 
payments solution to its Current Account holders. 
Scale
	y
Merchant Acquiring Services is catering to more 
than 2.6 lakh merchant establishments and has 
4.2 lakh payment acceptance touchpoints across it
	y
The business saw a 44% growth in its merchant 
base and 27% in spends processed through payment 
acceptance devices for FY 2024-25
	y
More than 2.8 lakh Merchant Acceptance Devices 
have been added in FY 2024-25
Products and Services
Merchant Acquiring Services offer state-of-the-art 
Android-based point-of-sale (POS) devices, soundbox 
devices, SoftPOS solution, merchant application, 
same-day and holiday settlements, and an array of 
other value-added services, including SMS Pay, EMI, 
Dynamic Currency Conversions (DCC) and best-in-class 
solutions for Bharat QR (BQR) / UPI payments like BQR 
Standee and BQR Soundbox.
New Initiatives
	y
In January 2025, launched Smart Fusion POS, a 
features rich compact payment acceptance solution 
primarily catering to small merchants. This device 
provides real time voice alerts along with payments 
via card and UPI
	y
INSTA Kit now includes QR codes, enabling 
merchants to start transacting immediately after 
their accounts are set up. This is ready-to-use 
solution, available at branches, streamlines the 
account opening in process
2.6 lakh - No. of Merchant Outlets with 
YES BANK Merchant Acquiring Services
4.2 lakh - No. of Payment Acceptance 
Devices across locations
2.8 lakh - No. of new Payment 
Acceptance Devices added in FY 2024-25
SME  
Banking
YES BANK’s SME banking offers a comprehensive and 
diverse suite of products including working capital 
finance, supply chain financing, Term loans, Trade and 
Forex solutions, Treasury services, and Commercial 
asset financing. With a strong physical presence across 
1,255 branches and a robust digital stack, these product 
and services are delivered through a dedicated team 
of Relationship Managers and Product Specialists 
for SME customers.
38
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Products and Services
The Bank offers comprehensive client-focused solutions with differentiated products :
New Initiatives
	y
Digital Overdraft (Digi OD): High-yielding product 
aimed at increasing penetration for bottom-of 
pyramid SME customers
	y
SME Service Desk: Unified Service Desk, which 
addresses 50+ non-financial customer requests 
has now been upgraded to include key financial 
service requests
	y
SMARTFIN: State-of-the-art Supply Chain Financing 
platform launched for digital onboarding & loan 
management for channel finance customers
	y
YES Export: New product for exporters with features 
like access to Trade specialists, online trade platform 
and dedicated support
	y
IRIS Biz mobile application providing seamless 
experience 
for 
personal 
and 
business 
banking accounts
Key Highlights
	y
Digital 
Lending 
Platform 
(DLP): 
Significantly 
transformed onboarding process for SME Customers 
powered by information available via extant Digital 
Public Infrastructure (DPI) including GST, Udhyam, 
Banking, ITR, Bureau API sets
	y
E-Sign & E-Stamping process aimed towards 
convenience of post sanction documentation 
creating efficiencies and reducing TAT
Cash 
Credit / Overdraft
Term loan 
(Including Capex)
Working 
Capital Demand loan
Digital 
Overdraft (Digi OD)
LAI (Loan 
against Import)
LC / BG 
/ Buyer's Credit
Pre-Shipment 
/ Post Shipment
Dealer Finance
Vendor Finance
Healthcare  
Financing
Equipment  
Financing
CGTMSE
Stand up India
CGSS 
(Start up Funding) 
Working Capital 
Finacing
Trade Financing
Supply Chain 
Financing
Healthcare / 
Equipment Financing
Government 
Gaurantee Schemes
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
39
Fintech 
Partnerships
By collaborating with select Fintech Partners, the 
Bank is building a sustained and scalable low-cost 
Neo Banking model. Selecting a Fintech Partner is a 
well-thought-out strategy with a segmental-based 
focus to ensure differentiated product offerings and 
value-creating propositions.
Scale
The Bank processes around 1 million banking requests 
monthly via the API stack.
Products and Services
	y
The Bank engages with multiple fintech partners to 
enable the acquisition of incremental new-to-bank 
(NTB) customers across Liabilities, Assets and Credit 
Card businesses
	y
It leverages unique propositions with the Fintech 
Partner’s superior UI/UX and a robust application 
programming interface (API)-based technology 
stack
New Initiatives
	y
Launched the Current/Savings Accounts acquisition 
with Fintechs - Appreciate, Finvasia, Curie and PayTM
	y
Launched Credit Card acquisition with Fintechs – 
Kiwi, Rio and CreditPe
	y
Acquired around 42,000 current/savings accounts 
and 65,000 credit cards through these partnerships
40
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Wholesale 
Banking
The Wholesale Banking Group continues to play 
a key and pivotal role for the Bank, serving the 
below segments:
	y
Large Corporates
	y
Mid-Corporates
	y
Indian Financial Institutions
	y
International Banking
	y
Government Banking
	y
Multinational Corporates
Products and Services
Offering comprehensive client-focussed services across:
	y
Working Capital Finance
	y
Term Loans
	y
Project Finance
	y
Loan Syndication
	y
Transaction Banking Products
	y
Trade Finance
	y
Cash Management Services
	y
Supply Chain Finance
	y
Debt Capital Markets, Treasury Services (Foreign 
Exchange Risk Management)
	y
Foreign Currency Loans including ECBs
	y
Overseas Financing (via IFSC Banking Unit in 
GIFT City)
	y
Liquidity Management Solutions
Large 
Corporates
YES BANK’s Large Corporate segment delivers tailored 
financial and risk management solutions to India’s most 
prominent companies. Anchored by our philosophy 
of Ecosystem Banking, the segment adopts a holistic 
approach, extending beyond traditional banking 
relationships to serve the broader ecosystem of our 
clients - including their dealers, vendors, and customers.
Scale
Team of 182 Relationship Bankers in nine cities
Products and Services
Our commitment to being a one-stop financial partner is 
reflected in our comprehensive offerings, which include:
	y
Corporate 
Lending: 
Financing 
solutions 
to 
support 
capital 
expenditure, 
expansion 
and 
strategic initiatives
	y
Working Capital Solutions: Customised financing 
solutions to optimize cash flows and support 
operational efficiency
	y
Trade 
Finance 
and 
Supply 
Chain 
Solutions: 
Facilitating seamless transactions across the value 
chain for clients and their ecosystem partners
	y
Treasury and Forex Services: Providing hedging 
solutions and market insights to manage currency 
and interest rate risks
	y
Transaction 
Banking: 
Enabling 
efficient 
cash 
management, payments, and collections through 
digital platforms
	y
Wealth Management and Retail Banking Services: 
Catering to the personal banking needs of promoters 
and employees offering them a bouquet of services 
including Savings Accounts, Credit Cards, Salary 
Accounts and Personal Loans through partnership 
with the Retail Banking team
Team Expertise:
	y
The Large Corporate Relationship Team is dedicated 
to fostering long-term partnerships by delivering 
customised 
financial 
solutions 
and 
strategic 
guidance to large Indian enterprises
	y
The team possesses industry expertise across 
various sectors, providing industry-specific insights 
and financial solutions tailored to meet the unique 
needs and challenges of each industry
	y
The Large Corporate segment remains committed 
to driving value for our clients and stakeholders, 
reinforcing YES BANK’s position as a leader in 
corporate banking while contributing to India’s 
economic growth
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
41
Mid-
Corporates
The Mid-Corporates segment focusses on corporates 
with a turnover between ` 100 crore and ` 1,500 crore. 
The segment serves local corporates by understanding 
their banking needs and delivering tailored solutions 
across the entire spectrum of banking services.
Scale
The Mid-Corporates segment continues to adopt a 
two-pronged approach of acquisition of New-to-Bank 
(NTB) clients, and deepening existing relationships, 
while focusing on cross-selling through synergies with 
Transaction Banking, Digital Banking, YES Securities, 
FASAR, Treasury and Branch Banking. A strong team of 
325 relationship managers is present at 37 locations.
Products and Services
The Mid-Corporates segment offers a customised 
suite of financial products including Term Loans, 
Funded & Non-Funded Working Capital Facilities, 
Cash Management Solutions, API Banking, Digital 
Banking and Trade & Treasury Products by leveraging 
cutting-edge technologies.
Growth driven by regional presence, 
granular book, robust risk management, 
strong digital penetration, structured 
cash & trade solutions
69% of Unicorns and 1,500+ Start-ups 
in India are served by YES BANK’s 
Mid-Corporates segment
Indian Financial 
Institutions
The Indian Financial Institutions segment offers 
correspondent banking solutions to domestic and 
cooperative banks, digital and transaction banking 
solutions for NBFCs, Insurance Co’s, Mutual Funds, 
and Capital Market entities and sustainable asset book 
building in NBFCs.
Scale
Team of 61 Relationship Bankers based across 
all key locations Pan-India, catering to Indian 
Financial Institutions.
Products and Services
	y
Resource raising in the form of Borrowings & 
Refinance basis engagements with all AIFIs like 
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development 
(NABARD), the Small Industries Development Bank 
of India (SIDBI), the Export–Import Bank of India 
(EXIM Bank) and the National Housing Bank (NHB)
	y
Facilitates Co-lending / Direct Assignment (DA) 
partnerships to build the retail book
	y
Superior offerings for Professional Clearing Members 
(PCM) and Custodial Businesses, along with banking 
facilities for stockbrokers and exchanges
	y
PSL generation through focussed lending to 
NBFC/MFIs
Liability focus with superior and 
customised Digital & Transactional banking 
solutions for Financial Institutions
42
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
International 
Banking
The International Banking segment maintains 
relationships with an extensive network of 
International Banks, Multilateral Financial Institutions 
and Exchange Houses. The unit leverages its strong 
correspondent-banking network to create access for its 
corporate customers and also for internal stakeholders, 
providing access to the international markets for availing 
financing and international banking services.
Scale
The team manages relationship with more than 400 
international / multinational banks spread across 
70 countries and also works with several leading 
International Developmental Financial Institutions on 
liability generation and cross-border trade facilitation. 
The team also actively manages the engagement with 
regulated overseas payment service companies to 
manage India inbound & outbound FX remittances.
Products and Services
	y
Trade finance
	y
Treasury services
	y
Investment banking solutions
	y
Remittance solutions
	y
Financial advisory
New Initiatives
	y
Leveraging the Digital & Transaction Banking 
capabilities for inbound / outbound remittance flows
	y
Managing the Vostro / Special Rupee Vostro Accounts
	y
Borrowings from liability-rich banks
	y
New initiatives around Payment Aggregator – Cross 
Border model in line with RBI’s latest regulations
Emerged as a preferred banking 
partner for the Government and their 
Administered Institutions, empowered by 
a diverse suite of customised solutions, 
designed to enhance service efficacy and 
enable an inclusive digital experience
Government 
Banking
The Government Banking segment provides 
comprehensive coverage to Central & State 
Governments along-with Government Administered 
Institutions across India. Underpinned by deep domain 
expertise, the team aims to deliver efficient & integrated 
digital-led banking solutions, thereby enhancing 
operational & financial efficiencies for the entire value 
chain and also fostering an inclusive digital ecosystem 
across both Government-to-Customer (G2C) and 
Government-to-Business (G2B) interfaces.
Scale
Coverage in 36 Cities by an experienced team of 
dedicated Relationship Bankers and further amplified by 
Branch-led sourcing of Government Accounts at all YES 
BANK Branch locations pan-India
Products and Services
	y
Liquidity Management Solutions
	y
Digital & Transaction Banking Solutions
	y
Trade Finance
	y
Treasury Services
	y
Debt Capital Market Services
	y
Knowledge Advisory
New Initiatives
	y
Empanelment as a Government Agency Banker with 
the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) and the 
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) 
for handling central tax collections, with the GST Go-
Live in March 2025
	y
Successful empanelment for state agency business 
with the Governments of Rajasthan, Bihar, West 
Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Telangana, Arunachal 
Pradesh, and Gujarat
	y
Ongoing empanelment across various states 
to facilitate the Bank’s engagement with state 
governments and their institutions, with a focus on 
strengthening the Bank’s liability portfolio
	y
Strategic focus on high-potential sectors including 
Ports, Defense, Smart Cities, Agriculture & Allied 
Activities, 
Urban 
Local 
Bodies, 
Development 
Authorities, and District Administration, driven by 
bespoke digital banking solutions to support end-
to-end digitisation
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
43
Multinational 
Corporates
The Bank has built a strong relationship with 
multinational corporates (MNCs) operating in India. 
These include marquee MNCs, growth-stage MNCs 
and Global Capability Centers (GCCs). The unit also 
collaborates with strategic influencers, leveraging 
the Bank’s thought leadership and transaction 
banking expertise.
Scale
Team of dedicated Relationship Managers spread across 
8 cities covering MNCs present in India to provide service 
and digital capabilities of global standards combined 
with domestic reach and Gift City Presence.
Products and Services
	y
Comprehensive Solutions tailored to MNC  
Banking needs
	y
Technology & Transaction Banking 
	y
Global Banking Services
	y
Ecosystem Banking / Supply Chain Banking
	y
Knowledge Banking / Advisory
New Initiatives
	y
Becoming preferred host-country bank to  
global clients
	y
Source solution-led current account from corporates
Superior Digital & Transaction 
banking solutioning
Becoming preferred host-country bank 
to global clients
An ecosystem player adding value across 
their entire supply value chain.
Transaction 
Banking
1
Transaction Banking is a specialised product group 
providing Trade Finance, Cash Management, 
Custodial Services, Supply Chain Financing, Bullion 
and Remittance Services to Corporates, MSMEs, 
New Economy companies, Government and Financial 
Institutions. The team manages all channels and 
platforms serving businesses and leads corporate digital 
innovation initiatives.
Scale
Product Coverage across 10,000+ Corporates and 
45,000+ Retail/SME Clients.
Products and Services
	y
The Transaction Banking leverages its product and 
technology expertise to offer innovative digital 
solutions by designing, developing, and co-creating 
products with corporate clients, fintech and 
technology partners, banks, and exchange houses 
The group effectively drives digitisation across 
the entire financial supply chain of businesses in 
various sectors, and leverages its flagship API 
banking, fintech partnerships and extensive product 
knowledge through its product and sales teams
	y
The group also manages Internet Banking and API 
channels for its corporate clients
	y
TBG’s supply chain unit works with its strategic 
corporate clients to harness their supply chain 
linkages and provide critical liquidity solutions to 
their SME partners
	y
The group also offers the IRIS Biz (Super App for 
Business) with embedded ‘YES Connect’ platform 
- an API marketplace that brings together banking 
(products and services offered by the Bank) 
and beyond banking solutions (from third-party 
partners) in a simplified manner
Products and Offerings:
TBG offers a comprehensive product suite that caters 
to the working capital and liquidity management 
requirements of businesses across sectors, as well as 
to a spectrum of MSME and wholesale client segments. 
Its product suite includes:
1GRI 2-6
44
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Cash Management Services:
	y
Cash 
management 
services 
for 
managing 
receivables and payables
	y
Customised 
and 
innovative 
digital 
solutions, 
including market-leading API banking solutions
	y
Digital solutions for Corporates, correspondent 
banking and NBFCs
	y
Specialised products and solutions for Government 
entities, including Central and State bodies
	y
Fiduciary services, e.g., escrow, nodal and RERA
	y
Capital 
market-related 
products, 
including 
settlement and custodian services
	y
Curated solutions for Trusts, Associations, Societies 
and Clubs (TASC)
Trade and Supply Chain:
	y
Trade Finance & Services, such as letters of credit, 
bank guarantees, export and import credit, and 
remittances (including FEMA advisory solutions)
	y
Structured trade and supply chain solutions including 
digitisation initiatives and fintech engagements
	y
Foreign exchange services, such as cross-border 
remittances for exchange houses and authorised 
dealers, and foreign currency notes
	y
Bullion Sales and Gold Metal Loans
Corporate Client Management
TBG also has a specialised and niche vertical for corporate 
client management (ISO-certified unit), which serves as 
an exclusive service-oriented unit responsible for the 
implementation and client servicing of all transaction 
banking products and solutions. This unit works on 
a ‘phygital’ model to deliver a superior post-sales 
customer experience that creates heightened customer 
stickiness through its differentiated service proposition.
New Initiatives
	y
Launch of IRIS Biz – A super app for MSME /
corporates customers, including individual CA, Sole-
prop, Private limited, Public Limited, TASC and other 
constituents. The app, provides over 100 banking 
and beyond banking solutions to its customers via 
web and mobile platforms
	y
Agency Bank – YES BANK has announced the launch 
of its Agency Business Mandate, enabling it to act as 
an agent for various state and central government 
and regulatory bodies. Through direct integration 
with the various tax portals, this empanelment 
enables businesses and individuals to meet their tax 
obligations swiftly and securely using YES BANK’s 
Retail and Corporate Internet Banking platforms, as 
well as any of its extensive branch network
	y
Supply Chain Platform – Digitised client journeys 
(E2E STP for Trade Finance and Supply Chain) and 
created inorganic client acquisition funnel through 
fintech partnerships
1,500+ API-related services under 
API Banking (since its introduction in 
September 2015)
84% CA, 87% Cash Management thruput, 
97% Trade Fund Book & 92% Trade Non-Fund 
Book across Corporates have 2+ TBG 
Product Embedment
100% of our CMS Corporate CASA clients are 
covered by dedicated Service Team, including 
product onboarding, with query resolution at 
93% First Time Right with 92% TAT adherence
98% of Corporate CASA is embedded with 
Transaction Banking Product & Solutions
99% of our Cash Management thruput comes 
from Digital modes
71% of all Lending Clients have 2+ TBG 
Product Embedment
58% Y-O-Y growth in CMS Thruput
240% growth in Asset under Custody, 
31% growth in total Statutory 
payments, 13% in NACH
282% Y-O-Y growth in Corp. IBU CA
30% Y-O-Y growth in remittance value
17% YTD growth in Mandate executed Y-O-Y
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
45
Bespoke risk management solutions to more 
than 35,000 clients pan India
Among Top 3 Banks for outright purchase of 
Gold, Silver and Gold Loan
Project Finance 
Business and 
Loan Syndication
Project Finance Business (PFB) is a specialised business 
unit which handles project finance loans and other 
large long-term loans of the Bank. The unit houses 
sector-specific expertise built over years across Energy, 
Transport, Ports & Logistics, Core & Evolving Sectors, 
Real Estate, Hospitality and Healthcare etc.
Loan Syndication (LS) unit leverages its vast 
relationship with Lenders to provide capital saving, 
yield enhancement and risk diversification through 
distribution of Bank’s advances. This provides a one-stop 
solution to clients large underwriting requirements and 
at the same time de-risking the Bank's balance sheet. 
The unit also leverages its relationship with Lenders to 
acquire advances from syndication market.
Key Strength
	y
Sectoral Knowledge - Sector-focussed Business 
Development & Risk Identification for Deal Closure
	y
Engagement with Regulatory Bodies and other 
Stakeholders - Pulse of sectoral Headwinds and 
Tailwinds across industry and value chain
	y
ESG focus - Meeting Bank’s ESG commitment 
through lending to sustainability sectors
	y
Bespoke Solutions with Client Focus - Deal 
Structuring to optimise funding attractiveness to 
suit the specific client and project requirements
	y
Market Intelligence & Relationship with Lenders - 
Facilitate deal structuring and exposure strategy
Originate-to-Distribute
Combined capabilities of PFB and LS units enables the 
Bank to execute deals on Originate-to-Distribute basis 
- leading to Yield Improvement, Risk Diversification, 
Capital Saving and Increased cross-sell (cashflow 
routing, Escrow, Lead, NFB etc.) for the Bank.
Financial 
Markets
The Financial Markets function offers comprehensive 
services across Interest Rates, Foreign Exchange, Debt 
Capital Markets, Bullion etc. The Financial Markets 
franchise caters to a diverse range of client segments, 
such as Corporates, SMEs, Government entities, 
Institutions, and Individuals. It excels in ideating on 
funding strategies, mitigating currency risks through 
robust hedging strategies and enhancing financial 
stability to meet the diverse needs of the Bank’s clients. 
The Balance Sheet management group is the custodian 
of the Bank's cash, liquid assets and government 
securities portfolio. It manages day-to-day liquidity with 
required reserve ratios and provides fund transfer pricing 
for all of the asset and liability products offered to the 
Bank’s customers. As a designated Primary Dealer by 
the RBI, the Bank also underwrites and creates liquidity 
for central and state government securities by making 
two-way prices in the market.
Products and Services
	y
Expertise in cross-border remittances on account of 
trade and services as well as capital flows
	y
Fund raising solutions for clients through products 
like 
Non-Convertible 
Debentures, 
Commercial 
Papers and other structured financing options
	y
Electronic execution offered to clients through 
YES BANK's proprietary platform
	y
Dedicated Treasury sales manager for each client to 
offer timely market insights and hedging solutions
	y
Overseas presence through IFSC Bank in GIFT city, 
Gujarat offering various Financial Market Products
New Initiatives
Digital acceptance of forward confirmation through 
Corporate Net Banking.
46
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
IFSC Banking  
Unit
The only overseas branch of the Bank and the first 
bank to commence operations in October 2015 at 
GIFT - International Financial Services Centre (IFSC). 
Regulated by the International Financial Services 
Centers Authority “IFSCA” as the host country regulator, 
and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as the home 
country regulator, the IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) offers a 
comprehensive suite of FCY products, helping the Bank 
complete its Wholesale & Retail product bouquet.
Scale
` 6,300 crore + Customer Advances & Investments
Products and Services
	y
FCY funded/non-funded loans to JV/WOS of Indian 
Corporates and other eligible Non-resident entities
	y
External Commercial Borrowings (ECB) and trade 
credit loans to Indian entities
	y
Derivatives/Forex Hedging/Cross Currency and 
other financial market products
	y
CA / SA /TD liability offerings
	y
Remittances and import/export linked product 
offerings
New Initiatives
	y
Successfully participated in a few large, syndicated 
deals in infrastructure & renewable sectors
	y
Significant acceleration in Liability business with 
total customer deposits at ` 4,300 crore
	y
Introduced internet Banking services and Digital 
Smart Trade platform which offers efficient and 
convenient Banking solutions to clients
	y
High growth seen in transaction volumes handling 
over 17,000 remittances
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
47
Food and Agribusiness 
Strategic Advisory and 
Research (FASAR)
YES BANK’s specialised Food and Agribusiness Strategic 
Advisory and Research (FASAR) unit houses industry 
specialists with sectoral knowledge and experience 
in the food and agriculture domain. FASAR provides 
unique, knowledge-driven solutions to clients by actively 
engaging in research, strategic advisory, policy advocacy 
and knowledge dissemination. FASAR generates banking 
opportunities on the back of these unique knowledge 
banking services, with a focus on exploring innovative 
banking solutions, acquiring new-to-bank clients and 
deepening banking relationships with existing clients.
Products and Services
	y
FASAR works closely with Corporates, MSMEs, 
Multinationals, Central Government organisations 
and 
State 
Governments 
executing 
project 
advisory, strategic advisory as well as policy 
advisory engagements across diverse sub sectoral 
and thematic areas focussed on the food and 
agriculture value chains
	y
The unit also conducts in-depth research on various 
sub-sectors within the Food & Agri domain and 
publishes knowledge reports and research papers 
apprising stakeholders about the the latest issues, 
key trends and developments in the Indian food and 
agriculture sector
	y
FASAR knowledge partners with various government 
organisations as well as prominent industry forums 
to organise various national as well as international 
conferences focused on disseminating information 
and knowledge that contribute to the sustainable 
development of India’s food & agriculture sectors
Business 
Economics 
Banking
As the research and knowledge team within the Bank, 
it strives to be at the forefront of understanding 
and disseminating critical analytical perspectives 
on domestic and global financial markets. The team 
produces cutting-edge reports on macro issues and 
public policy perspectives, aiming to equip clients not 
only with the requisite knowledge base required for 
their businesses but also to ensure that actionable 
strategies related to financial markets are backed by 
adequate research.
Products and Services
	y
GLOBAL MARKETS UPDATE: Update on overnight 
global markets focusing on macro developments, 
FX, fixed income, and commodities
	y
ECOLOGUE: Data and critical event reports, along 
with the team’s perspectives, are disseminated to 
clients on the same day
	y
CLIENT 
SERVICING: 
Regular 
meetings 
and 
interactions with clients for knowledge sharing
	y
FRANCHISE 
/ 
CAPACITY 
BUILDING: 
Thought 
leadership 
at 
industry 
organisations, 
regular 
participation in media, including authored columns
48
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Corporate and 
Government 
Advisory
The Corporate & Government Advisory (CGA) group 
works closely with emerging sectors of the economy 
by undertaking knowledge-driven engagements 
and advisory mandates, to further the Bank’s 
commitment towards India’s holistic, inclusive, and 
sustainable growth.
The group leverages its in-depth sectoral expertise, 
research skills and apex-level relationship capital 
across the government and the industry ecosystem to 
assist clients - including central and state governments, 
multi-lateral bodies, industry chambers and private 
sector players, in their developmental and growth 
agenda, apart from facilitating emerging opportunities 
within identified sectors for the Bank’s teams.
The team has a focussed knowledge-driven vale chain 
approach across sectors such as Urban Sustainability, 
E-mobility/Advanced Automotive, and Electronics, with 
the objective of creating new banking opportunities and 
deepening of relationships with key customer segments.
Products/Offerings
	y
Business Growth Advisory – Market Evaluation 
(Sector/ Opportunity), Scheme Advisory (Central & 
State Schemes), Partner Identification, Investment 
Location Analysis and Incentive Mapping
	y
Government Policy Advisory – Policy Development 
& 
Review, 
Industry 
Outreach, 
and 
Policy 
Implementation Support and Policy Promotion
	y
Government Strategic Advisory – Investment 
Promotion 
Advisory, 
Sector 
Development 
Roadmaps, Government Financial Advisory, Solution 
Identification, Pre-Feasibility & DPRs
New Initiatives
	y
Advisory assistance to Smart Cities in planning for 
financial & resource growth
	y
Scheme advisory for several automotive component, 
electronics and white goods value chain players for 
Capex and Production Linked Incentives from Central 
Ministries to strengthen domestic manufacturing 
ecosystem in the country
	y
Advisory Assistance to companies across auto & 
electronics domain in partner identification
1GRI 2-6
Note: There have been no significant changes in the sector that the Bank operates in, its value chain, or other business relationships, compared 
to the previous reporting period1
PG 02-49
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
49
Our 
Strategy 
50
YES BANK LIMITED
50
YES BANK LIMITED
As it navigates through complex global headwinds, a rapidly-evolving regulatory landscape, 
disruptive digital economics, and an emerging new India, YES BANK has crafted a forward-thinking 
strategy that not only helps it keep pace with its fast-changing operating environment, but one 
that enables it to respond to evolving market needs, capitalise on new opportunities, and use 
technology-led solutions to create long-term, sustainable value at scale. In FY 2024-25, the 
Bank demonstrated continual progress in line with its strategic priorities of building a new-age, 
responsible franchise, geared towards sustainable, profitable and inclusive growth.
Staying universal, 
but going granular
Gain share across segments, while 
diversifying and de-risking
Maintain market leadership with 
focus on monetisation
Destination for talent,  
technology and purpose
Being a preferred Banker 
to the new economy
Being efficient yet 
empathetic
SBO 1: Accelerating quality-led 
growth of our liability franchise
SBO 2: Strengthening 
retail assets growth
SBO 3: Enhancing mid-corporate and 
corporate profitability
SBO 4: Pursuing growth in  
SME segment
SBO 5: Enhancing momentum in 
transaction banking
SBO 6: Creating value from digital 
solutions & payments
SBO 7: Deepening relationship  
with customers
SBO 8: Focussing on people, processes 
and ESG integration
Vision
Deliver excellence in financial services, be a 
preferred Banker to customers and an employer of 
choice, and deliver responsible growth
Mission
To establish a high-quality, customer-centric, service- 
driven, Bank of choice by providing new-age banking 
solutions, with a focus on sustainable growth
Underpinned by a strong governance and compliance culture
KEY PILLARS OF YES BANK’S STRATEGY
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
51
OUR STRATEGY 
External
Internal
Macroeconomic developments: Headwinds, trade and growth
While global economic activity remained broadly resilient in 2024, 
falling inflation and slowing growth prompted central banks 
across the world to cut interest rates and ease monetary policy. 
The global economy continues to face challenges as the economic 
order, built on cooperation, free trade, and capital mobility, 
undergoes significant transformation, and geopolitical tensions 
and geo-fragmentation persist. 
In FY 2024-25, the Indian economy remained one of the fastest 
growing economies of the world, with an estimated growth of 
6.5%, driven primarily by private and government consumption, 
and significantly higher than the global growth estimate of 3.3%. 
In FY 2025-26, the RBI expects India’s economy to grow at 6.5%, 
while the IMF estimates it at 6.2%. Even as the world tides over 
the uncertainties arising from US tariff policies and geopolitical 
risks, India is likely to be relatively less affected, with domestic 
economy continuing to drive the bulk of its economic growth 
momentum. Strong corporate and bank balance sheets, coupled 
with RBI's monetary easing and liquidity-support measures, 
are expected to help kickstart a private capital investment cycle. 
Falling inflation should further support real wages and boost 
domestic discretionary consumption, aided by Income Tax cuts 
effective from FY 2025-26.
The Bank closely monitored global and domestic economic 
trends and adjusted its actions in-line with evolving country 
risks and sector-specific developments. Over the last few 
years, YES BANK has focussed on embracing granularity in its 
operations and growing its business for scale and profitability. 
This has been supported by early investments in building 
digital capabilities, a broad-based distribution franchise, a 
diversified product suite, segment-specific offerings and a strong 
customer-centric approach. 
Amidst the macro-economic backdrop, the Bank continued to 
deliver growth alongside improved profitability, by optimising its 
retail asset-mix, strong growth within SME and Mid-Corporate 
segments, and further improving the share of its branch network. 
This was achieved by leveraging its branch network to offer a full 
spectrum of products. As a part of its integrated strategy, the Bank 
also made notable progress in reducing accumulated shortfalls in 
PSL categories and sub-categories, while strengthening its balance 
sheet through a significant reduction in both Gross and Net NPA. 
Regulatory developments: Focus on fraud and customer protection
Key guidelines issued by the RBI during the year focussed on 
enhancing transparency and fairness in financial transactions, 
strengthening fraud risk management, ensuring fair interest 
charging practices, widening the treatment of wilful and large 
defaulters, managing inoperative accounts and unclaimed 
deposits, preventing financial frauds via voice calls and SMS, and 
ensuring comprehensive customer coverage under the nomination 
facility. These measures collectively aim to protect customer 
interests and foster a robust compliance culture within the 
banking sector.
The Bank is dedicated to complying with the latest RBI guidelines, 
by regularly evaluating and updating its policies to promote 
transparency, fairness, and customer protection. These efforts also 
aim to strengthen the Bank's compliance culture, with a focus on 
risk management, customer-centricity, and sustainable practices.
Staying universal, but going granular
Environment we operate in
Pillar I
52
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Accelerating quality-led growth of our 
liability franchise
SBO-1
Retail depositors remain an important source of low-cost 
and stable funding for the Bank. While the Bank continues 
to acquire new customers through its branch expansion 
strategy, it is also deepening relationships with existing 
customers to increase wallet share and drive fee-based 
income. This is being achieved by developing and enhancing 
customers’ digital journeys and serving as a one-stop solution 
catering to diverse needs, through multiple product offerings 
across a customer's lifecycle. 
Key Interventions
	y
Focussing on branch expansion strategy with leaner 
formats integrated with technological capabilities
	y
Accelerating growth in current accounts to ensure lower 
cost of deposits 
	y
Focussing on quality acquisitions with innovative product 
and programme propositions, and best-in-class digital 
onboarding journeys for seamless customer experience
	y
Exploring co-lending or partnership opportunities to 
accelerate growth 
	y
Creating joint propositions across assets and liabilities for 
higher share of wallet
How we measure impact
	y
New branch additions
	y
CASA deposits growth
	y
% of accounts 
sourced digitally
Key risks impacted
R-6
 
R-7
 
R-8
Capital impacted
C-1
 
C-4
 
C-5
Key Achievements
	y
37 new branches added in FY 2024-25
	y
CASA Deposits increased to 34.3% in FY 2024-25 from 
30.9% in FY 2023-24 
	y
New & refreshed propositions for quality acquisition in 
Emerging Affluent, Affluent and HNI segments
	y
~95% of eligible current accounts sourced digitally, with 
62% activated under best-in-class median TAT of 4 hours 
	y
Focussed Merchant Current Account acquisition with 
launch of Vyaapari festival, offering holistic solution with 
bundled offerings 
	y
Instant 
Savings 
Account 
opening 
with 
paperless 
processing and Video KYC activation capabilities
	y
Digital co-origination enabled for third-party insurance 
products with Savings Accounts, and merchant POS with 
Current Accounts
	y
Enhanced smart-salary proposition tailored to career 
stage and corporate-linked banking solution
Strengthening retail  
assets growth
SBO-2
In retail lending, the Bank's digital lending journeys and 
digital propositions – backed by robust credit frameworks, 
advanced analytics and strong IT infrastructure – are enabling 
consistent growth. A combination of ‘Digital First’ capabilities 
and deep business expertise positions the Bank well to pursue 
growth prudently, without compromising on portfolio quality.
Key Interventions
	y
Calibrating disbursal-mix to drive NIM and RoA expansion, 
with a focus on growing profitable segments
	y
Leveraging internal channels as the fulcrum of growth, by 
utilising branch network and technology
	y
Increasing the share of PSL through both organic and 
inorganic routes, particularly through lending to small, 
medium and non-corporate farmers, and weaker sections
	y
Strengthening collections efficiency with robust process 
design, agency management and performance scorecards
	y
Leveraging digital origination journeys with data-driven 
analytics, to bring operational efficiencies
How we measure impact
	y
RoA improvement 
	y
% of internal sourcing
	y
% of PSL compliance
Key risks impacted
R-3
 
R-4
 
R-5
R-7
 
R-8
 
R-11
Capital impacted
C-1
 
C-4
 
C-5
C-6
Key Achievements
	y
Improvement in RoA, which stood at 0.6% in FY 2024-25 
(with Q4-FY 2024-25 at 0.7%), up from 0.3% in FY 2023-24 
	y
Branch-led sourcing crossed 50% across retail & 
rural assets in FY 2024-25, up from 41% in FY 2023-24
	y
100% PSL compliance in FY 2024-25, resulting in reduction 
in mandated deposits kept in-lieu of PSL shortfalls
	y
Leveraged bureau enquiries and AI & machine learning 
technology for scorecard strengthening and adopting 
tighter policies for products with higher delinquencies 
	y
Expanded distribution to tier II & III locations through 
dedicated retail asset centres and implemented a 
new collection system and mobility application to 
drive efficiency 
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
53
Enhancing mid-corporate and 
corporate profitability
SBO-3
The Bank is well-placed to build scale and positioning in 
mid and large-corporate segments, with a commitment to 
enhancing customer experience through improvements in 
customer onboarding journeys, coupled with best-in-class 
relationship management.
Key Interventions
	y
Positioning the Bank as a core banking partner and a 
trusted advisor for clients
	y
Growing client-base by acquiring high quality clients, 
based on income and risk characteristics
	y
Growing mid- and large-corporate book while continuing 
granularisation and improvement in portfolio credit rating
	y
Accelerating 
liabilities 
growth 
with 
a 
focus 
on 
solution-led CASA
	y
Increasing wallet share by cross-selling digital and 
transaction banking, financial markets, and retail 
banking products
	y
Ensuring robust risk management for sustainable 
business growth
How we measure impact
	y Growth in corporate advances 
	y Gross Non-Performing Assets 
(GNPA) reduction
	y Growth in mid-
corporate advances
Key risks impacted
R-2
 
R-3
 
R-4
 
R-7
R-8
 
R-10  
R11
Capitals impacted
C-1
 
C-5
 
C-6
Key Achievements
	y
Corporate advances grew by 11.5% Y-O-Y in FY 2024-25
	y
Mid-corporate advances grew by 21.8% Y-O-Y in 
FY 2024-25 
	y
Corporate GNPA reduced to 1.1% in FY 2024-25 from 
2.4% in FY 2023-24 
	y
Mid-corporate GNPA reduced to 1% in FY 2024-25 from 
1.5% in FY 2023-24 
	y
Successfully implemented ‘Agency Bank’ mandate of the 
government and RBI to enable tax collection on their behalf
	y
Fully digitised strategic supply chain business with a 
revamped Loan Origination and Management System, 
enhancing customer experience of corporate partners 
and their supply chain ecosystem
	y
Increased focus towards Loan Syndication and Debt 
Capital Market to provide full-spectrum solution to clients
External
Internal
Being a preferred Banker to the new economy
Environment we operate in
Pillar II
Policy development: MSMEs in focus
MSMEs are the backbone of the Indian economy, contributing 
approximately 30% to its GDP and over 45% to exports. 
The 2024-25 Union Budget has increased the investment and 
turnover thresholds for MSME classification by 2.5 & 2 times 
respectively, to help them scale operations and access better 
capital resources. With this fast-paced expansion in small and 
medium enterprises, there is a marked surge in digital lending and 
banking solutions, with an increased demand for convenience and 
accessibility across the MSME lifecycle. This backdrop underscores 
the demand for digital transaction banking solutions driven by the 
need for convenience, speed, and security. 
Bank’s Small and Micro Enterprises (SME) vertical continues to 
serve as a key growth engine, delivering strong Y-O-Y growth in 
FY 2024-25 and contributing a significant share to the Bank’s 
overall advances. Another key vertical, the Transaction Banking 
Group (TBG), plays a crucial role in developing long-term client 
relationships by offering comprehensive Cash Management, Trade 
Finance and Supply Chain Finance solutions, ensuring smooth 
financial and operational support for businesses.
Regulatory developments: Digital lending, NPA norms, enhanced transparency
Key guidelines issued by RBI during the year introduced significant 
policy reforms on digital lending, NPA norms and international 
banking standards, amongst others, which were aimed at 
enhancing resilience and transparency, while ensuring a stable 
financial environment. 
Underpinning its offerings to these segments, are the strategic 
technology investments aimed at modernising core platforms, 
enabling hyper-personalised customer experiences, and driving 
operational efficiency through automation and digitisation. 
The Bank is actively leveraging digital touchpoints to drive business 
adoption, and exploring new growth avenues through strategic 
partnerships, such as with the PSP Payments Bank – a leading 
player in the payment ecosystem, and other FinTech and BigTech 
partners. These initiatives underscore the Bank’s inherent strength 
in digital capabilities and robust technology infrastructure. 
54
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Pursuing growth in  
SME segment
SBO-4
The Bank’s strong competitive advantage in SME Banking 
is driven through deep segment expertise, relationships 
and 'solutioning' approach in dealing with customers. 
Key enablers such as an API integrated ecosystem, loyalty 
rewards, dedicated portfolio team and Virtual RM team, have 
been implemented by the Bank for catering to diverse needs 
and gaining larger wallet share from the SME segment. 
Key Interventions
	y
Launching new products catering to value chain 
segments, augmenting digital offerings 
	y
Focussing 
on 
augmenting 
Government 
Guarantee 
Scheme-backed loans
	y
Digitising customer experience for seamless integrated 
financial management 
	y
Deepening customer engagement by addressing a wide 
array of customer requests through dedicated service 
desk
How we measure impact
	y
% Growth in SME  
advances
	y
% Growth in SME  
disbursements
Key risks impacted
R-3
 
R-4
 
R-7
R-8
 
R-10  
R-11
Capital impacted
C-1
 
C-5
 
C-6
Key Achievements
	y
SME advances grew by 23.6% Y-O-Y in FY 2024-25
	y
SME disbursements increased to ` 34,022 crore in 
FY 2024-25 from ` 31,919 crore in FY 2023-24
	y
Launched YES Export, new product catering to value chain 
segment of exporters (up to ` 15 crore) 
	y
Implemented data-driven lead generation engine from 
Bank’s customer base to empower SME sales teams
	y
Launched ‘Digi OD’, a high-yield end-to-end digitally 
enabled unsecured overdraft facility
	y
Implemented ‘SmartFin’, a digital solution for Supply 
Chain Financing across customer lifecycle 
	y
Launch of a digital lending platform for SME Customers, 
powered by Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) 
	y
Launched ‘PowherUP’, an initiative to support and finance 
women entrepreneurs in the MSME segment
Enhanced momentum in transaction 
banking
SBO-5
For YES BANK, transaction banking serves as a cornerstone 
for long-term sustainable and granular growth, anchored 
in innovation with customer trust and engagement. 
Transaction banking plays a crucial role in the bank’s financial 
ecosystem by driving stable revenue streams, deepening 
client relationships and enhancing liquidity management.
Key Interventions
	y
Continued focus on leadership in API banking 
	y
Digitising trade finance and cross-border remittance 
journeys to improve customer experience and processing 
timelines
	y
Implementing data-driven fraud detection and prevention 
mechanisms to enhance Risk Management and Compliance
	y
Building strategic partnerships with 3rd party partners 
across different fields (SaaS players, Accounting, legal, 
taxation, expense management, invoicing & payment 
gateways) to strengthen ‘Beyond Banking’ proposition
	y
Enhanced transaction banking capabilities by becoming 
future-ready for BaaP and BaaS models
How we measure impact
	y
API stacks developed
	y
Key partnerships  
developed
Key risks impacted
R-2
 
R-3
 
R-8
R-10  
R-12  
Capital impacted
C-1
 
C-5
 
C-6
Key Achievements
	y
Launched ‘IRIS Biz’, a super app providing 100+ ‘Banking 
and Beyond-Banking’ solutions to customers
	y
Launched ‘YES PAY Biz’ for merchants, onboarding 
~51,000 merchants
	y
Launched new platforms, ‘ADLRS 2.0 & Last Mile’ for 
automated processing of cross-border remittances
	y
Integrated MYSA, a partner supporting startups to 
improve financial systems and processes
	y
Through ‘Yes Connect’, simplified inward remittance 
settlement and digitised client journeys for trade & 
supply-chain finance
	y
Launched Agency Business Mandate, enabling the Bank 
to act as an agent for government and regulatory bodies
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
55
Creating value from digital solutions & 
payments
SBO-6
YES BANK is focussed on adopting and delivering world-class 
digital experience that is anchored in human-centricity led 
interactions. The Bank’s focus is to deliver value propositions 
that use the power of technology to drive secure, scalable and 
engaging experiences across its products.
Key Interventions
	y
Empowering customer interactions with digital tools to 
create customer delight and improve turnaround time
	y
Enhancing customer facing channels to deepen customer 
engagement and drive cross-sell opportunities
	y
Strengthening payment solutions and services to capture 
opportunities in identified sunrise segments 
	y
Building capabilities to leverage fintech partnerships for 
generation of liability and card products
	y
Leveraging Bank’s state-of-the-art data lakehouse 
that enables data-backed decision-making, driving 
risk management, product pricing, policy-led credit 
decisioning, and building capability for AI infusion
How we measure impact
	y
UPI market share 
	y
Digitizing and simplifying  
user journeys
Key risks impacted
R-5
 
R-6
 
R-8
R-12
Capitals impacted
C-1
 
C-4
 
C-5
C-6
Key Achievements
	y
#1 UPI Payee Payment Service Provider (PSP) with 
56.9% market share
	y
Processed nearly 1 out of every 3 digital transactions in 
the ecosystem (UPI, IMPS, NEFT, AePS and Micro ATMs)
	y
Improved current account opening experience, leading 
to best-in-class median turnaround time (TAT) of 4 hours 
	y
Launched ‘UPI acquiring stack’ enabling UPI collections for 
aggregators, merchants and third-party app-providers
	y
Utilised data-powered credit analytics, delivering hyper 
personalisation and improved product penetration
	y
Opened ~45,000 accounts through fintech partnerships, 
enabled by Bank’s ‘Neo Banking’ API Stack 
	y
Launch of Liberalised Remittance Scheme (LRS) & MCTC 
travel card on IRIS, simplifying cross-border payments
	y
Leveraging YES BANK’s leadership in UPI ecosystem with 
‘Credit Cards on UPI’ and ‘UPI on global merchants’
56
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
External
Internal
Being efficient yet empathetic
Environment we operate in
Pillar III
Market developments: changing customer expectations, focus on cyber security with increased digitisation
Operating in a complex but opportunity-rich environment, the 
Indian Banking sector is navigating strong GDP growth, a maturing 
digital public infrastructure and buoyant credit demand, particularly 
in retail, MSME and priority sectors, creating significant headroom 
for expansion. However, this growth is accompanied by shifting 
customer expectations due to increased digital penetration and 
financial literacy. The post-pandemic behavioural reset has made 
trust, transparency and responsiveness non-negotiables in 
customer engagement. 
Consequently, Banks are focussing on deepening customer 
relationships by leveraging data analytics to personalise offerings, 
and utilising technologies like CRM tools and AI-powered chatbots 
to enhance customer service. As the financial ecosystem shifts 
towards open banking, ecosystem banking, and digital payments 
& lending, security risks and related complexities have also 
emerged, which may result in breach of confidentiality and 
compromise of customer’s classified data. Therefore, staying 
ahead of the curve in cyber security measures has become crucial 
for financial institutions, to maintain a secure digital environment 
for their customers. 
YES BANK has adopted an integrated approach, where customer 
centricity is not only enhanced by data and digital tools, but also 
grounded in responsible practices and people-led culture. While the 
Bank continues to acquire new customers by leveraging existing 
distribution strength, it also continues to expand its relationships 
with existing customers. Human-centred design is informing 
digital touchpoints, while empowered relationship managers are 
trained not only in product, but in inclusive communication and 
sustainability awareness. 
To ensure utmost confidentiality, integrity, and availability of its 
infrastructure, the Bank has adopted ISO 27001:2022 Global 
Information Security Standard, embraced the principles of Security/
Privacy by Design, and implemented a Board-approved Information 
Security Policy and Cyber Security policy. Bank’s Cyber Security 
Resilient Framework and a 24x7 Security Operations Centre 
monitors cyber-related risks and suspicious network traffic and 
enables proactive threat detection and response. 
Regulatory developments: Climate risk, ESG norms and disclosures
Simultaneously, RBI’s increasing focus on climate risk mitigation, 
fair lending and fraud risk management signals a sector-wide 
shift towards accountable and inclusive Banking. Given India’s 
exceptional vulnerability to the adverse consequences of climate 
change and its need for USD 2.5 trillion (at 2014-15 prices) to 
meet its climate targets till 2030, the ensuing government policies 
and guidelines signal ambition and commitment to low-carbon 
and resilient development. In the Union Budget 2024-25, the 
government announced a slew of measures to promote renewable 
energy, improve adoption of EVs and enable low-carbon transition 
of critical sectors such as steel and cement. The announcement on 
establishing a climate finance taxonomy, followed by the release 
of a draft framework in May 2025, is a welcome step toward 
establishing standardised definitions and classifications, and 
building synergies with existing national goals.
Concurrently, SEBI has also introduced several key changes to 
ESG disclosure norms for listed entities, focussing on enhancing 
the BRSR Core framework, including ESG disclosures for the value 
chain, and augmented assurance requirements. The regulator 
also introduced stricter requirements for ESG rating providers 
and expanded its framework on ‘green debt securities’ to include 
“social”, “sustainability” and “sustainability-linked” bonds, aligning 
with international standards and best practices.
The Bank also continues to actively monitor developments in the 
ESG and climate landscape by collaborating closely with a diverse 
range of stakeholders to integrate key sustainability themes 
and practices into its business. The Bank has published its BRSR 
disclosures as part of its Integrated Annual Report (refer to 
page 293) and aligns its ESG disclosures with benchmark reporting 
frameworks such as the GRI Standards and the Task Force on 
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. 
The Bank has established a robust climate governance framework, 
with Board-level and Executive-level committees overseeing its 
climate strategy. It strives to align its business with the goals of 
the Paris Agreement and India's net zero transition. The Bank has 
pledged to reduce GHG emissions from its operations to Net Zero by 
2030 and is consistently increasing the share of renewable energy 
in its electricity mix. In line with its climate commitments, the Bank 
has started developing its capacity for scenario analysis and is 
leveraging scenario-based target setting approaches to develop 
long-term climate resilient strategies and roadmaps, starting with 
its fund-based electricity generation portfolio. The Bank continues 
to support climate-aligned sectors such as renewable energy and 
electric vehicles, and has developed targeted products for green 
financing, such as ‘Green Deposits’ and YES Kiran rooftop solar 
loans for SMEs.
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
57
Deepening 
with customers
SBO-7
The Bank aims to serve as a one-stop solution catering to 
diverse customer needs through multiple product offerings 
serving the customers’ entire lifecycle. The Bank is also 
continually expanding its relationship teams across its 
spectrum of customer segments to address customers’ 
needs efficiently.
Key Interventions
	y
Focussing on personalisation with specialist product 
and relationship management teams for higher value 
segments
	y
Strengthening self-service processes with best-in-class 
mobile banking application
	y
Advancing superior relationship and customer lifecycle 
management through Bank’s 360-degree customer 
application ‘Yes Genie’ 
	y
Prioritising product co-origination and cross-sell of 
complementary solutions
	y
Enhancing scope of Loyalty Rewards Programme for 
current-account customers
How we measure impact
	y
Net Promoter Score
	y
Increase in fee income
	y
Unique digital 
service journeys 
Key risks impacted
R-1
 
R-5
 
R-6
R-8
 
R-12
Capitals impacted
C-2
 
C-5
 
C-6
Key Achievements
	y
Net Promoter Score for FY 2024-25 at 74 (an improvement 
from last year’s NPS of 70)
	y
Over 238 unique digital service journeys enabled for 
enhancing self-service processes 
	y
Fee income increased by 14.5% Y-O-Y in FY 2024-25, with a 
higher proportion of granular and transactional fee income
	y
Integrated affluent-segment relationship management 
with branch banking, for seamless customer experience 
	y
Enabled activation of Instant Relationship manager (RM) 
for eligible new customers 
	y
Accelerated growth in non-resident customer liabilities 
through enhanced product proposition, pricing strategy 
and broad-based branch participation
	y
Continued cross-selling through end-to-end digital 
journeys for FD, Credit Cards, Personal Loans, Trading 
accounts, Mutual Funds, Insurance, MCTC and LRS
	y
Launched real-time GST payment service for ease 
of payments
Focussing on people, processes and  
ESG integration
SBO-8
YES BANK’s resilient and future-ready operating model is 
based on efficiency, that delivers scale and responsiveness 
with empathy, and shapes trust and long-term societal 
value. The Bank has adopted a four-pronged ESG strategy 
which strives to align with national and global frameworks on 
sustainable development, address key impacts of the Bank’s 
business activities and embed ESG considerations into all 
aspects of its business ecosystem.
Key Interventions
People and Processes
	y
Enhancing talent development through structured 
capability-building and leadership programmes to equip 
employees with future-ready skills in emerging domains 
	y
Driving 
employee 
engagement 
through 
tailored 
workshops 
and 
robust 
Employee 
Helpdesk 
for 
grievance redressal
	y
Driving data security through its ISO 27001 certified 
Information Security Management System
	y
Driving 
business 
continuity 
through 
process 
re-
engineering, digitisation and strengthened infrastructure 
for supporting scale and volume
ESG Integration
	y
Bank’s comprehensive ESG strategy embeds ESG 
considerations into all aspects of its business ecosystem, 
including its decision-making frameworks, with policies on 
Environment and Social Risk Management, Environmental 
Management and ESG Supplier Code of Conduct, guiding 
sustainable practices 
How we measure impact
	y Employee attrition
	y Instances of data breaches
	y S&P Global ESG Score
	y CDP Rating
Key risks impacted
R-1
 
R-5
 
R-6
R-8
 
R-9
 
R-11
Capitals impacted
C-2
 
C-3
 
C-4
C-5
 
C-6
Key Achievements
People and Processes
	y
Employee attrition reduced to 35.5% (from 38.2% in 
previous year)
	y
Zero instances of data breaches or breaches involving 
personally identifiable information of customers
	y
Recognised amongst India’s Best Workplaces™ in Banks 
2025 by the Great Place to Work® Institute
58
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
B
U
IL
D 
R
E
SI
LI
E
N
C
E 
A
G
A
IN
S
T 
E
S
G 
RI
S
K
YES BANK’s 3600 ESG strategy 
C
A
PI
T
A
LI
S
E 
O
N
 S
U
S
T
A
IN
A
B
L
E 
FI
N
A
N
C
E 
O
P
P
O
R
T
U
N
IT
I
E
S
Develop 
sustainable 
offerings
Balance 
Sustainability 
& Profitability
Enhance 
ESG 
Ratings
Build 
knowledge 
& advocacy
Address 
E&S & Climate
Risk
Enhance
Governance & 
Disclosures
Reduce 
E&S 
impacts
Portfolio & Products 
Address the Bank’s Climate, 
Environmental & Social risks at  
a portfolio level, and develop 
sustainable finance offerings 
Benchmark ESG Performance
Measure ESG performance 
against benchmark national 
and global frameworks and 
enhance ESG disclosures 
Stakeholder Engagement 
& Knowledge Building 
Work with stakeholders 
to address key ESG 
issues, build and 
share knowledge on 
ESG integration
Operations
Address the 
Environmental & 
Social impacts of the 
Bank’s operations 
and supply chain
1
3
2
4
In line with key disclosure 
frameworks such as GRI, BRSR, 
TCFD and requirements of 
benchmark ESG ratings
In line with global 
standards such as the  
ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001
In line with frameworks 
such as IFC PS, Green Bond 
Principles, India’s Framework for 
Sovereign Green Bonds
In line with global 
commitments such as UNEP 
FI Principles for Responsible 
Banking and UN SDGs
1. Portfolio & Products
The Bank practices responsible lending by 
addressing environmental & social risks of its 
lending activities through its Environment & 
Social Risk Management System. It refers to the 
Taskforce on Climate related Disclosures (TCFD) 
recommendations for adoption of best practices 
in managing and disclosing climate risk. The Bank 
supports SDG-aligned sectors such as renewable 
energy, electric vehicles and microfinance 
by developing sector-specific products and 
financing targets
2. Operations
The Bank aims to conserve its use of natural 
resources, reduce carbon emissions and 
minimise negative environmental impacts of its 
operations through its ISO 14001:2015 certified 
Environmental Management System. It aims 
to build a workplace that is diverse, inclusive, 
growth oriented and safe for all its employees 
and promote responsible ESG practices amongst 
its value chain
3. Benchmark ESG Performance
The Bank is committed to the highest standards 
of governance and disclosures, and aims to 
enhance its transparency in line with national 
and global ESG disclosure frameworks such as 
the Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report, GRI Standards and Integrated 
Reporting Framework
4. Stakeholder Engagement & Knowledge 
Building
The Bank continues to work with industry 
associations, regulators, multilateral bodies, 
peers, its employees, the community, and other 
stakeholders across the spectrum to address key 
ESG issues and develop standards, frameworks 
and methodologies required to deepen 
ESG integration
	y
Launched ‘MAESTRO’, a strategic talent management 
initiative for talent assessment and development
	y
Maintained uptime of 99.9% for critical applications
	y
Optimised data centre operations and scalable cloud 
solutions to ensure sustainability and innovation 
ESG integration
	y
Achieved the highest S&P Global ESG score of 73 amongst 
Indian banks, for third consecutive year
	y
Only Indian Bank to be included in the S&P Global 
Sustainability Yearbook 2025
	y
Achieved the highest CDP rating of A- (Leadership Band), 
among Indian banks for 2024 Climate Change disclosures
	y
Rated ‘A’ in the MSCI ESG Ratings assessment. Part of MSCI 
ACWI Low Carbon Leaders Index, ACWI Climate Change 
Index, MSCI India Climate Action Index, among others
	y
Ranked highest amongst 35 large scheduled commercial 
banks on climate preparedness in the Climate Risk 
Horizons Study, third year in a row
	y
First Indian Bank to measure and report financed 
emissions of its electricity generation loan exposure and 
set decarbonisation targets
	y
39% reduction in financed emission intensity of electricity 
generation portfolio (from base year FY 2021-22)
	y
~26% reduction in combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity and 23.61% reduction in energy intensity (per 
rupee of turnover) Y-O-Y 
	y
728 ktCO2e of annual attributable emissions avoided 
through the Bank’s renewable energy financing
	y
1,186 facilities covered under the Bank’s ISO 14001:2015 
certified Environmental Management System
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
59
Risk 
Management
60
YES BANK LIMITED
In an increasingly dynamic and interconnected financial landscape, robust Risk Management is 
essential to sustain institutional resilience, protect stakeholder value, and enable long-term 
strategic success. YES BANK has instituted a comprehensive Enterprise Risk Governance 
framework to ensure integrated risk assessment and management. The Bank’s Risk 
Management philosophy is guided by its robust Governance Framework and three Lines of 
Defence, ensuring a forward-looking, risk-aware culture across the organisation. 
Overall Governance Framework
The Board has put in place Board-level Committees which inter-alia pertain to Risk Management, primarily the Risk Management 
Committee ('RMC'), Audit Committee of the Board ('ACB'), Special Committee of the Board for Monitoring and Follow-up of 
Frauds (‘SCBMF’), Review Committee for Classification and Declaration of Wilful Defaulters ('Review Committee') and Board 
Credit Committee ('BCC').
Apex Management 
Committee
Enterprise Risk 
Management Committee
Management Credit 
Committee
Asset & Liability 
Management Committee
Operational Risk 
Management Committee
Stressed Asset 
Monitoring Committee
Product Process 
Approval Committee
Standing Committee on 
Customer Service
Sustainability Council
Whistle Blower Committee
Disciplinary Committee
Security Council
Model Assessment 
 Committee 
Fraud & Suspicious Transaction 
Monitoring Committee
Fraud Identification 
Committee
Committee for Classification of 
Wilful Defaulters & Non-Co-
operative Borrowers
The Bank has also constituted various Management-level Committees to oversee Risk Management
First Line of Defence:
Business Management
Second Line of Defence:
Independent Functions
Third Line of Defence:
Internal Audit
Key Board-Level Risk  
Committees
Risk Management 
Committee (RMC)
Audit Committee of  
the Board (ACB)
Review Committee for  
Classification and Declaration  
of Wilful Defaulters  
(Review Committee)
Special Committee of  
the Board for Monitoring  
and Follow-up of  
Frauds (SCBMF)
Board Credit 
Committee (BCC)
BOARD-APPROVED POLICY AND RISK CONTROL FRAMEWORK
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
61
The Board has put in place various Board-level Committees, 
to deal with risk management practices, policies, procedures 
and have adequate oversight on the risks faced by the 
Bank. The Board Committees have in turn set up various 
Executive-level Committees for oversight over specific risks. 
These Committees review various aspects, including key risks 
and ensure that the best-in-class frameworks are in place 
to oversee day-to-day management of underlying business 
activities, transactions and associated risks while dealing 
with internal and external stakeholders. Further, Risk-based 
events, potential threats, performance of the Bank vis-à-vis 
Risk Limits and Risk Appetite, and Risk Profile dashboard 
covering key risk indicators, among others, are presented to 
these Committees, with periodic trends outlining the level and 
direction of risks. 
Various Executive-level committees have been set up by the 
Board of Directors for independent oversight over the entire 
risk universe of the Bank. These Committees periodically 
monitor risk pertaining to their respective domains. 
Additionally, the Bank’s overall risk profile, covering Pillar 
I and Pillar II risks that the Bank is exposed to, is reviewed 
through the Enterprise Risk Dashboard which is presented to 
the ERMC and to the RMC/Board on a quarterly basis.
Additionally, in line with Risk Governance best practices, 
the Bank has independent credit underwriting and risk 
management verticals. The underwriting vertical, consisting 
of Credit Units, is headed by the Chief Credit Risk Officer 
(CCRO), and the risk controls & policy vertical consisting of 
various independent control units is headed by the Chief 
Risk Officer (CRO). The CRO reports to the Risk Management 
Committee, while the CCRO reports to the Managing Director 
& Chief Executive Officer and is also accountable to Board 
Credit Committee (BCC).
The Bank conducts a detailed Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Policy (ICAAP) review exercise, 
which is approved by the Board at least on an annual Board 
has the overall responsibility for Risk Management and 
oversees the Bank’s to identify its risk universe, review its 
risk appetite in line with business strategy, and assess its 
internal controls and mitigation measures in place for the 
risks and capital requirements. The Bank performs sensitivity 
analysis/stress testing on financial risks and non-financial 
risks through its Board-approved Stress Testing framework 
based on regulatory guidelines and industry best 
practices. The results of these tests are presented to the 
ERMC and RMC/Board on a quarterly basis. As per the 
risk-based audit plan, approved by the Audit Committee 
of the Board, various functions get audited at a frequency 
laid out in the plan. The audit of risk function has been done in 
FY 2023-24 as well as in FY 2024-25.
Risk appetite acts as an articulation and allocation of the 
quantum of risk that the Bank is willing to assume through 
its business activities, in pursuit of its strategic objectives and 
desired returns. Risk Appetite is duly set and monitored by the 
Enterprise Risk Management Committee, Risk Management 
Committee (RMC) and the Board, and is integrated into 
Bank’s Strategy, Business, Risk and Capital plans. 
Risk appetite is the Bank’s benchmark for balancing 
return and risk, recognising a range of outcomes in the 
course of business. It is expressed in both quantitative and 
qualitative parameters, and considers economic conditions, 
events and outcomes to reflect potential impact 
on earnings, capital, funding or liquidity. Risk Appetite is set 
at Bank-wide level, and is further translated to operational 
limit for portfolios, business, and risk units, by means of 
respective Board-approved policy documents viz. ALM Policy, 
Market Risk Policy, Credit Risk Policy and Operational Risk 
Management Policy, among others.
The Board has the overall responsibility for Risk Management and oversees the Bank’s Risk & Control environment, 
and also reviews and approves the policies as part of overseeing the Risk Management practices. 
	y
The Board lays down Risk 
Appetite Statement which 
articulates the quantum of risk 
the Bank is willing and able to 
assume in its exposures and 
business activities, in pursuit 
of its strategic objectives and 
desired returns 
	y
It ensures that 
comprehensive policies, 
systems and controls are in 
place to identify, monitor and 
manage material risks at a 
Bank wide level with clearly 
defined risk limits
	y
It establishes policies 
governing various aspects 
of risk management, 
which lay down the Risk 
Appetite Framework 
within the overall Risk 
Appetite Statement 
62
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Bank’s process for defining and monitoring performance within Risk Appetite includes:
Articulation of Risk 
Appetite & Risk Limits 
(reviewed by ERMC, RMC 
and approved by the Board)
Setting strategic plans and 
objectives by the Board
Cascading risk appetite 
statements and limits to 
Business and Risk Units
Quarterly reporting of 
performance against Risk 
Appetite as well as risk profile by 
the ERMC, RMC and the Board
Annual / periodic review by 
stakeholders, in case of deviation or 
changes in business, competition, 
controls and macro-economic 
environment of Risk Appetite 
Statement / Business Strategy
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
63
IMPACT
GOVERNANCE
RESPONSE FOR BUILDING RESILIENCE
LINK TO 
STRATEGY
LINK TO 
CAPITALS
May lead to financial 
losses, customer 
grievances and cause 
reputation loss. It 
may also lead to legal 
actions and losses due 
to penalties or customer 
compensation. It may 
also result in loss 
of data or pose an 
increased information 
security risk
Board-level:
Risk Management Committee 
Management-level:
	y
Operational Risk 
Management Committee
	y
Product Process 
Approval Committee
	y
Fraud 
Identification Committee 
	y
Accountability 
Review Committee 
	y
Whistle Blower Committee
	y
Disciplinary Committee 
	y
Standing Committee on 
Customer Service
	y
Operational Risk Management framework for 
business operations
	y
Outsourcing Risk Management framework 
for outsourcing arrangements
	y
Product and Process Approval Committee 
(PPAC) Policy & Framework for standardising 
risk assessment in product and 
process approvals
	y
ISO 22301 certified Business Continuity 
Plan (BCP) for ensuring resilience in 
business operations 
	y
Institutionalising risk and compliance culture 
across the organisation by advocating risk 
awareness, controls and mitigation measures
SBO-7
SBO-8
C-1
C-4
C-5
C-6
Operational Risk
Risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or due to external 
events, including loss arising out of legal risk
R-1
IMPACT
GOVERNANCE
RESPONSE FOR BUILDING RESILIENCE
LINK TO 
STRATEGY
LINK TO 
CAPITALS
May have a significant 
impact on the Bank’s 
financial performance, 
capital ratios, regulatory 
compliance and 
reputation
Board-level:
	y
Risk 
Management Committee 
Management-level:
	y
Asset & Liability 
Management Committee
	y
Market Risk, Investment and 
Derivative Policies
	y
Robust limit framework, supporting 
measures such as Risk Sensitivity, Value-at-
Risk, Stop Loss, Stress Testing and Rate Scan
	y
Independent Middle Office and Market Risk 
Functions to monitor risk on an ongoing basis
SBO-4
SBO-5
C-1
C-6
Market (Trading Book/Investments) Risk
Risk of loss in on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet positions arising from movements in market prices 
due to unfavourable movement in market variables such as interest rate, foreign exchange risk, price risk and 
volatility risk
R-2
Core Risks
64
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
IMPACT
GOVERNANCE
RESPONSE FOR BUILDING RESILIENCE
LINK TO 
STRATEGY
LINK TO 
CAPITALS
May have a significant 
impact on the Bank’s 
financial performance, 
capital ratios, regulatory 
compliance and 
reputation
Board-level:
	y
Risk 
Management Committee
	y
Board Credit Committee 
Management-level:
	y
Management 
Credit Committee
	y
Executive Credit Committee
	y
Distinct architecture of policies, procedures 
and systems for retail and wholesale 
businesses – managed on individual and 
portfolio basis for wholesale lending and 
largely on a portfolio basis for retail lending 
	y
Credit Risk models used to appraise customer 
segments based on portfolio behaviour 
	y
Measures such as capping exposures based 
on group, industry & country credit rating, 
portfolio diversification, stringent credit 
approval processes and post-disbursement 
monitoring utilised for wholesale loans
	y
Process-based underwriting replicated 
for ‘Digital Loans’ which primarily serve 
existing customers
	y
Independent validation unit for assessing, 
testing, monitoring and reviewing models for 
generating credit scores for ‘Digital Loans’
	y
Robust front- and back-end systems to 
ensure credit quality through factors such as 
income, demographics, credit history, loan 
tenor and banking behaviour
	y
Under a calibrated & granular asset growth 
strategy for retail assets, Bank places high 
emphasis on superior risk filters 
SBO-2
SBO-3
SBO-4
SBO-5
C-1
C-6
Credit Risk
Potential losses associated with deterioration in the credit quality of borrowers or counter-parties, stemming 
from outright default or a reduction in portfolio value
R-3
IMPACT
GOVERNANCE
RESPONSE FOR BUILDING RESILIENCE
LINK TO 
STRATEGY
LINK TO 
CAPITALS
May have a significant 
impact on the Bank’s 
financial performance, 
credit quality, regulatory 
compliance and 
reputation
Board-level:
	y
Risk 
Management Committee 
Management-level:
	y
Enterprise Risk 
Management Committee
	y
Concentration is monitored across various 
categories such as single borrower 
concentration, business group concentration, 
rating-wise concentration, sector, industry 
and product concentration, among others
	y
Percentage analysis & Normalised 
Herfindahl–Hirschman Index (HHI) used 
for analysing concentration risk, over and 
above concentration limits such as sector 
and rating caps
SBO-2
SBO-3
SBO-4
C-1
C-6
Asset Concentration Risk
Risk arising from any single exposure or a group of exposures with the potential to produce losses large 
enough (relative to the Bank’s capital, total assets, or overall risk level) which can pose a threat to the Bank’s 
health or ability to maintain its core operations
R-4
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
65
IMPACT
GOVERNANCE
RESPONSE FOR BUILDING RESILIENCE
LINK TO 
STRATEGY
LINK TO 
CAPITALS
May result in adverse 
regulatory action which 
may have implications 
on business (in case 
of stringent regulatory 
action in the form of 
curtailing expansion/ 
specific business lines) 
and reputation risk
Board-level:
	y
Risk 
Management Committee
	y
Audit Committee 
Management-level:
	y
Enterprise Risk 
Management Committee
	y
Board-approved Compliance Policy, which is 
reviewed annually
	y
Continuous tracking and review of 
compliance against regulatory guidelines by 
Compliance function
SBO-2
SBO-6
SBO-7
SBO-8
C-1
C-6
Compliance Risk
Risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss, or loss to reputation that the Bank may suffer as a 
result of its failure to comply with laws, regulations and rules applicable to its banking activities
R-5
IMPACT
GOVERNANCE
RESPONSE FOR BUILDING RESILIENCE
LINK TO 
STRATEGY
LINK TO 
CAPITALS
Typically has long-
lasting effects, and 
may result in decline in 
market value, loss of 
customers, difficulty in 
attracting and retaining 
employees, and 
increased regulatory 
scrutiny, undermining 
public confidence in the 
Bank, which may also 
lead to Liquidity Risk
Board-level:
	y
Risk 
Management Committee 
Management-level:
	y
Enterprise Risk 
Management Committee
	y
Comprehensive Reputation Risk 
management framework & reputation crisis 
management action plan
	y
Reputation Risk quantified through a 
comprehensive scorecard
	y
Robust audit process with reputed auditors 
and concurrent audit framework
	y
Board-approved KYC & AML policy and 
monitoring of transactions
	y
Social media policy and Code 
of Conduct policy
	y
Process for adverse news tracking on various 
media, along with its analysis and reporting
	y
Periodic trainings conducted
	y
Grievance redressal mechanisms
SBO-1
SBO-6
SBO-7
SBO-8
C-5
C-6
Reputation Risk
Potential damage to the reputation, brand image or public perception due to negative publicity, scandal, 
adverse regulatory actions or other events, typically arising when an organisation’s actions or behaviours do 
not align with its stated values or societal expectation
R-6
66
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
IMPACT
GOVERNANCE
RESPONSE FOR BUILDING RESILIENCE
LINK TO 
STRATEGY
LINK TO 
CAPITALS
May result in delay 
or failure in achieving 
Bank’s strategic goals 
and/or expected 
business and financial 
outcomes, ultimately 
impacting growth
Board-level:
	y
Risk 
Management Committee 
Management-level:
	y
Apex 
Management Committee
	y
Enterprise Risk 
Management Committee
	y
Ingrained in Bank’s day-to-day processes and 
decision-making & governance structures
	y
Board-approved mid to long-term strategy
	y
Periodic review of key identified metrics 
linked to strategic objectives
	y
Annual business and capital planning 
exercise, based on business strategy, risk 
appetite and regulatory guidelines, with an 
iterative evaluation process to challenge 
assumptions & integrity
SBO-1
SBO-2
SBO-3
SBO-4
SBO-5
SBO-6
SBO-7
SBO-8
C-1
C-2
C-4
C-6
Strategic Risk
Risks that undermine the organisation’s capability to implement business strategy or deliver expected 
outcomes
R-8
IMPACT
GOVERNANCE
RESPONSE FOR BUILDING RESILIENCE
LINK TO 
STRATEGY
LINK TO 
CAPITALS
	y May result in the 
Bank not being able 
to meet obligations 
to its depositors and 
creditors on a timely 
basis, resulting in  
severe reputational  
risk and a run-on-the 
Bank, and by-
effect insolvency
	y Liquidity Risk may 
result borrowing at 
higher rates to meet 
obligations, eroding 
Bank’s profitability  
and capital
	y Interest rate risk 
may result in erosion 
of profitability 
when interest 
rates move adversely
Board-level:
	y
Risk 
Management Committee 
Management-level:
	y
Asset & Liability 
Management Committee
	y
Asset-Liability Management policy 
for Liquidity Risk and Interest Rate 
Risk management
	y
Board-approved limits and stress 
testing framework for Liquidity Risk and 
Interest Rate Risk
	y
Contingency funding plan with triggers for 
extreme scenarios
	y
Studies are conducted on non-contractual 
assets & liabilities and available embedded 
options, while managing maturity gaps
	y
Framework to manage intra-day Liquidity  
Risk
	y
Stringent internal thresholds for Liquidity 
Coverage Ratio (LCR) and Net Stable Funding 
Ratio (NSFR) in line with regulatory guidelines
	y
Mechanism to track top, bulk and 
retail depositor concentration with 
internal policy limits
SBO-1
SBO-2
SBO-3
SBO-4
C-1
C-6
Asset-Liability Mismatch (ALM) Risk
Risk arising on account of 
	y
Liquidity Risk, which relates to Bank’s inability to meet its short-term financial obligations due to an 
asset-liability mismatch or interest rate fluctuations 
	y
Interest Rate Risk, which if unmanaged, poses a threat to the Bank’s current capital base and/or 
future earnings 
R-7
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
67
IMPACT
GOVERNANCE
RESPONSE FOR BUILDING RESILIENCE
LINK TO 
STRATEGY
LINK TO 
CAPITALS
	y
May lead to lower 
productivity, 
increased work 
deliverables, low 
engagement, 
potentially 
increasing costs 
associated 
with replacing, 
onboarding & 
training employees
	y
May result in 
Operational Risk 
due to lack of skilled 
manpower for 
critical activities
Board-level:
	y
Risk Management  
Committee 
Management-level:
	y
Apex Management  
Committee
	y
Structured succession planning and 
development interventions for promoting 
career growth for internal talent
	y
Focussed employee retention context for HR 
Business Partners to strengthen retention 
and manage attrition
	y
Enhanced engagement through branch-level 
engagement initiatives
	y
Process for employee 
grievances and feedback
	y
Attrition analysis conducted through Exit 
interviews and Employee surveys
SBO-8
C-1
C-2
C-6
Attrition Risk
Potential of losing employees from the organisation due to 
resignation or retirement
R-9
IMPACT
GOVERNANCE
RESPONSE FOR BUILDING RESILIENCE
LINK TO 
STRATEGY
LINK TO 
CAPITALS
May lead to financial 
loss, regulatory under-
reporting or damage to 
reputation
Board-level:
	y
Risk Management  
Committee 
Management-level:
	y
Model Risk Governance 
unit and Model 
Assessment Committee
	y
Enterprise Risk 
Management Committee
	y
Board-approved Model Risk and Governance 
policy outlining various aspects such 
as guidelines for Model development, 
documentation, validation and performance 
monitoring, along with assessing 
Model materiality
	y
Periodic performance review, validation and 
back testing is being conducted
SBO-3
SBO-4
SBO-5
C-1
C-6
Model Risk
Potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs 
and reports
R-10
68
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Emerging Risks
IMPACT
GOVERNANCE
RESPONSE FOR BUILDING RESILIENCE
LINK TO 
STRATEGY
LINK TO 
CAPITALS
Increase in frequency 
and severity of 
climatic events may 
adversely affect the 
Bank’s infrastructure, 
employees and client 
performance, and 
therefore, the Bank’s 
revenues and costs. 
Stricter environmental 
regulations and policy 
changes may impact 
Bank's operations and 
strategy, as well as 
that of its clients
Board-level:
	y
CSR & ESG  
Committee
	y
Risk Management  
Committee 
Management-level:
	y
Sustainability Council
	y
Enterprise 
Risk Management  
Committee
	y
Operational 
Risk Management  
Committee
	y
Risk identification and assessment of potential 
physical and transition risks across various sectors and 
geographies, by analysing climate-related data and 
engaging with experts 
	y
Developing strategies to mitigate the direct impacts 
of climate change on operations and to adapt to the 
evolving regulatory and market landscape
	y
Measuring and reducing financed emission of carbon 
intensive sectors in line with decarbonisation scenarios
	y
Operational Resilience Planning to mitigate the impact 
of physical climate risks on infrastructure and business 
continuity through Disaster Recovery Plan
	y
Exploring and developing sustainable finance products 
and services to support environmentally positive 
projects and businesses
	y
Transparently reporting on climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with evolving best practices and 
regulatory requirements
	y
Thought leadership and policy advocacy at national and 
global level, including engaging and working with clients, 
peers, regulators for accelerating low-carbon transition
SBO-2
SBO-3
SBO-4
SBO-8
C-1
C-3
C-4
C-5
C-6
Climate Risk1
Risks arising from severe weather events driven by climate change, and market & regulatory push for 
transition to a low-carbon economy
R-11
IMPACT
GOVERNANCE
RESPONSE FOR BUILDING RESILIENCE
LINK TO 
STRATEGY
LINK TO 
CAPITALS
Materialisation of 
information security 
risk can affect an 
organisation’s 
operations, financial 
standing, reputation, 
legal compliance, or 
data integrity
Board-level:
	y
IT Strategy  
Committee
	y
Risk Management  
Committee
Management-level:
	y
Information 
Security Council 
	y
Fraud & Suspicious  
Transaction  
Monitoring  
Committee
	y
Information Security Governance Framework and other 
sub-policies enable risk assessment of IT solutions, 
assessment of entities providing IT and related services, 
and digital implementation 
	y
Implemented Global Information Security Standard ISO 
27001:2022 along with Board-approved information 
security and cyber security policies, and General Data  
Protection Regulation (GDPR), to protect information 
assets. Adopted PCI DSS standard for card-related  
operations
	y
Multi-layered defence system to protect against cyber-
attacks, along with a 24x7 Security Operations Centre 
(SOC) maintaining vigilance over actionable threat 
intelligence and suspicious network traffic
	y
Continuous guidance and awareness building on global 
cyber security threats among employees, customers 
and other stakeholders
SBO-5
SBO-6
SBO-7
C-4
C-5
C-6
Information Security Risk
Potential for loss, damage, or harm to an organisation’s data, systems, or reputation due to threats and exploitation 
of vulnerabilities, arising from cybersecurity attacks, system failures and internal or external threat actors
R-12
1GRI 201-2
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
69
Stakeholder 
Engagement
1
1GRI 2-16, GRI 2-29
YES BANK LIMITED
70
In today’s dynamic operating environment, stakeholder expectations are rapidly evolving, driven 
by heightened awareness of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues, increasing 
digitalisation, and the growing demand for transparency and accountability. For YES BANK, 
these shifts underscore the importance of building trust-based, long-term relationships 
with stakeholders, not only as a driver of reputation and resilience, but also as a strategic 
imperative for sustained value creation. Given its vast national presence, the depth and breadth 
of its product portfolio, and the diversity of its business activities, YES BANK engages with an 
equally broad spectrum of stakeholder who both shape and are shaped by the Bank’s value 
creation journey.
YES BANK has institutionalised a comprehensive stakeholder 
engagement approach that is deeply embedded within its 
governance and business strategy. Based on a survey of its top 
management and senior leadership, the Bank has identified 
10 critical stakeholder groups that are most affected by its 
business activities, and in turn, impact its ability to create 
value. The Bank believes in engaging closely with all its key 
stakeholders in order to better understand and address their 
needs, and incorporate their feedback into the Bank’s overall 
business strategy. The Bank follows a robust stakeholder 
engagement model, employing a combination of structured, 
and need-based engagement mechanisms to reach out to 
these stakeholder groups on a periodic basis. To further 
reinforce responsiveness and accountability, the Bank has 
set up dedicated grievance redressal mechanisms and set 
up specialised business units, through which stakeholders 
can redress any of their grievances. Critical concerns voiced 
by stakeholders are communicated to relevant Board-level 
committees, periodically. In FY 2024-25, the Bank continued 
to engage with its critical stakeholder groups through various 
means, and integrate their concerns, suggestions and inputs 
into its strategic planning.
1
10
5
6
2
9
3
8
4
7
Employees
Media
Regulatory Bodies
Community
Industry & Peers
Customers
Financial/ESG Analysts
Shareholders & Investors
Business Associates
Vendors
STAKEHOLDER
GROUPS
Stakeholder Engagement
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
71
Employees
Means of Engagement1
Frequency
Key Concerns
The Bank's response
Employee Service 
Desk - Query and 
Grievance Redressal
Ongoing
Training &  
Growth
	y
` 1,416 spent per FTE on Training & Development
	y
7,605 training programmes conducted; 6.72 
average training days per employee with 28,376 
employees trained
HRMS and Bank’s Intranet	
Continuous
Employee  
Wellbeing
	y
Policy on Employee Health Check-up, 
availability of medical facilities and wellness 
centre, insurance benefits and other employee 
wellness initiatives
Employee Engagement & 
Wellness Measures
Ongoing
Non- 
Discrimination 
	y
Policy on Equal Opportunity and on 
Prevention and Prohibition of Sexual 
Harassment at Workplace
	y
Institution of a Diversity & Inclusion Council to 
accelerate D&I initiatives across the Bank
Learning Management 
System
Permanent
Career  
Progression
	y
Annual Performance Review for all 
eligible employees
	y
Policy on Internal Job Posting for career 
progression of employees
Learning & Development 
Interventions
Ongoing
Employee Performance	
Management
Annual
E-mailers and Virtual and 
In-person Meetings
Ongoing
Means of Grievance Redressal1: The Bank has an Employee Service Desk for addressing individual employee grievances
1 GRI 2-25, GRI 2-26
Means of Engagement1
Frequency
Key Concerns
The Bank's response
Mandatory filings with 
regulators including RBI and 
SEBI (Stock Exchanges)
Periodic & 
Eventual
Compliance  
and  
Governance
	y
Policies on ‘Board Diversity and Fit & Proper 
Criteria and Succession Planning’; ‘Remuneration’ 
and on ‘Code for Corporate Governance’ 
covering Bank’s governance practices in line 
with provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, 
the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI Listing 
Regulations’), Banking Regulation Act 1949, 
and RBI Guidelines
	y
Risk and Compliance Culture Policy is overseen 
by the Risk Management Committee and Audit 
Committee of the Board
Engagement at banking 
platforms and meetings
Eventual
Means of Grievance Redressal1: The Bank has dedicated Compliance and Company Secretarial units for addressing any 
concerns raised by regulatory bodies
Regulatory 
Bodies
72
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Customers
Means of Engagement1
Frequency
Key Concerns
The Bank's response
Branches & Retail Assets 
Centres (Walk-ins)
Branch  
Working Hours
Requirement of 
new features in 
digital products
	y
Pioneering innovative digital solutions such 
as YES ROBOT, WhatsApp Banking, IRIS Biz, 
YES BANK Digital Rupee, amongst others - 
empowering customers with smarter, faster, and 
more secure banking experiences
Contact Centres (Voice)
24x7
Staff manpower 
issues 
leading to 
higher wait time
	y
Additional staff deployed wherever feasible. 
Enhanced self-service options on digital 
platforms to improve customer convenience
Contact Centres (Non-Voice)
Working Hours
Digital Channels (Net 
Banking & Mobile 
Banking) (Log in)
24x7
Branch Level Service 
Committee Meetings 
(Walk-in)	
Monthly
Standing Committee on 
Customer Service (Online)
Quarterly
BC Network (Walk-In)
Working Hours
Transaction NPS Surveys 
(Emails/SMS/Calls)
Triggered post  
customer 
transactions
Means of Grievance Redressal1: Customers can redress their grievances and concerns by visiting the Bank’s Branch or 
contacting the Bank’s contact centre: https://www.yesbank.in/contact-us
1 GRI 2-25, GRI 2-26
Shareholders  
& Investors
Means of Engagement1
Frequency
Key Concerns
The Bank's response
Annual Report
Annual
Profitability  
and value  
creation
	y
The Bank achieved its fourth straight full year 
profitability in FY 2024-25, with profits up 92.3% 
Y-O-Y (highest since reconstruction) 
	y
Full year Return of Assets up 30 bps to 0.60%
Annual General Meeting
Annual
ESG  
Performance
	y
Achieved highest S&P Global ESG score of 73 out 
of 100 and highest CDP rating of ‘A- Leadership 
Band’, amongst Indian Banks, during the year
Company Website
Continuous
Analyst Calls
Quarterly
Investor Meets & 
Road Shows
Periodic
Annual CDP Disclosure
Annual
Response to ESG research 
and ratings agencies
Periodic
Press Releases
Periodic
Communication to Stock 
Exchanges, SEBI Complaints 
Redress System (SCORES), 
SMART - Online Dispute 
Resolution portal
Eventual/ 
Periodic
Bank's Registrar & 
Transfer Agents
Periodic
Means of Grievance Redressal1: Shareholders and investors can address their concerns through the Bank’s Investor 
Helpdesk: https://www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=contactdetailsforstakeholdersgrievancesredressal_pdf.pdf
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
73
Business 
Associates
Means of Engagement1
Frequency
Key Concerns
The Bank's response
API Banking console for 
Relation Managers (RM) 
to log complaints on 
behalf of clients
Permanent
API security 
and compliance
	y
Steps to secure API stack for API services 
exposed to clients for various banking 
services (for ex. merchant pay-outs)
Dedicated L1 and L2 desks to 
address queries, complaints 
and technical issues raised 
by Fintechs/SMBs/NBFCs
Permanent
Information security  
(Customer sensitive  
data) of Data  
exchanged with 
Fintechs/SMBs/NBFCs
	y
Strong governance and Information 
Security Policy regarding storing 
and transmitting customer sensitive 
information (PII data) outside Bank 
network, or being stored on Bank’s private 
cloud, or vendor managed cloud platforms
Relationship 
Managers assigned
Permanent
Quality  
Product &  
Services
	y
Strong governance for existing and new 
product launches
	y
Mandatory assessment and scrutiny by all 
key stakeholders including IT, Compliance, 
ORM, Operations, Audit, to ensure zero 
loopholes in the Bank's offerings
Means of Grievance Redressal1: The Bank has setup dedicated Level 1 and Level 2 desks to address queries, complaints and 
technical issues raised by Fintechs/Sub-member banks/NBFCs. Partners can also log complaints through the Relationship 
Managers assigned to them.
Vendors
Means of Engagement1
Frequency
Key Concerns
The Bank's response
Online procurement portals
Permanent
Transparency in 
sourcing processes
	y
SAP Ariba e-Sourcing Platform for 
improved fairness and transparency in 
sourcing processes
Supplier Sustainability  
Workshops
Eventual
Business  
opportunities 
for MSMEs 
and local vendors
	y
In FY 2024-25, the Bank engaged with  
983 MSME vendors amounting to total 
spend of ` 829.11 crore. 100% of this 
sourcing was done locally
Vendor Communications by 
Strategic Procurement Unit
Eventual
Means of Grievance Redressal1: The Bank has a Corporate Whistle-blower Initiative’ (CWI) - independent online 
reporting service for secure, confidential communication of vendor concerns which can be accessed here: 
https://www.yesbank.in/strategic-procurement-unit
Industry  
& Peers
Means of Engagement1
Frequency
Key Concerns
The Bank's response
Industry and trade 
associations such as 
CII, FICCI & IBA
Annual
Knowledge  
Sharing/ 
Partnerships
	y
Knowledge partnerships with industry 
bodies on sustainable agriculture, electric 
mobility and other material areas
Memberships to national 
and international 
associations, such as UNEP 
Finance Initiative
Annual
Opportunities  
to collaborate
	y
Only Indian founding signatory and member 
to the UNEP FI Principles for Responsible 
Banking (PRB) with continued progress and 
disclosures on PRB targets
Signatory to international 
protocols including UN 
Global Compact, CDP
Annual
1 GRI 2-25, GRI 2-26
74
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Financial/ 
ESG 
Analysts
Means of Engagement1
Frequency
Key Concerns
The Bank's response
Analyst Conference Call
Quarterly
Profitability 
and value creation
	y
The Bank achieved its fourth straight 
full year profitability in FY 2024-25, with 
profits up 92.3% Y-O-Y (highest since 
reconstruction)
	y
Full year Return of Assets up 30bps to 0.60%
One-on-one 
and group meetings
Ad hoc
ESG Performance
	y
Achieved highest S&P Global ESG score of 
73 out of 100 and highest CDP rating of  
‘A- Leadership Band’, amongst Indian Banks, 
during the year
Investor/analyst conferences
Ad hoc
Means of Grievance Redressal1: The Bank has a dedicated Financial and Investor Strategy unit that addresses any concerns 
raised by financial analysts and also conducts analyst conference calls on a quarterly basis. ESG analysts can address their 
queries and concerns by sending an email to responsible.banking@yesbank.in
Community
Means of Engagement1
Frequency
Key Concerns
The Bank's response
Employee Volunteering 
through our institutionalised 
EVOLVE initiative
Periodic
Opportunities for 
inclusive growth
	y
Over 16,000 volunteering hours contributed 
by YES BANK employees for social causes
Beneficiary interactions 
as part of CSR 
project monitoring
Periodic
	y
Target of catalysing employment and 
entrepreneurship opportunities for over 
100,000 beneficiaries, including 25,000 
youth and 75,000 farmers, women & 
artisans by 2026
Capacity building of CSR 
implementation partners
Periodic
	y
Provided skills-based training for market-
oriented jobs, enabled entrepreneurship 
opportunities and enhanced earning 
capability for 68,000 beneficiaries 
since 2021, including youth, farmers, 
women and artisans 
	y
Built capacity of implementing partners 
on strategic management, cyber security, 
financial planning and strengthening 
M&E to enhance organisational growth 
and sustainability
Media & press releases
Eventual
Thought leadership forums
Eventual
Annual Report
Annual
Means of Grievance Redressal1: Implementation partners and community members can address their concerns by visiting 
https://www.yesfoundation.in/contact-us.html
Media
Means of Engagement1
Frequency
Key Concerns
The Bank's response
Press Releases 
& Media coverage
Eventual
Transparent  
and accurate  
information
	y
Periodic press releases on the Bank’s 
results and announcements
Interviews of the MD & CEO, 
and top management
Eventual
Views and 
insights from top 
management on the 
Bank’s business
	y
Regular interviews with top management on 
the Bank’s strategy and progress
Means of Grievance Redressal1: Media outlets can address their concerns by sending an email to  
corporate.communications@yesbank.in
1 GRI 2-25, GRI 2-26
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
75
76
YES BANK LIMITED
Materiality  
Assessment
1
1 GRI 2-16, GRI 3-1, GRI 3-2
The Bank’s operations, business activities, products and 
services, and relationships, interact with a multitude of 
stakeholders and help advance India’s national priorities. 
Being cognizant of the impacts its business can have across 
economic, environmental and social dimensions, YES BANK 
proactively carries out a materiality assessment exercise 
triennially to identify, minimise and mitigate, negative impacts 
and advance positive impacts originating from its business 
activities. The Bank’s current materiality assessment was 
carried out in FY 2023-24, and the material topics were 
reviewed and approved by the Sustainability Council and 
the CSR & ESG Committee of the Board in FY 2024-251. 
The Bank’s material topics represent its most significant 
impacts across its operations, business, products and value 
chain, and are a key input to the management’s strategy and 
its approach towards sustainability.
Methodology: Materiality Assessment1
The Bank’s materiality assessment exercise, carried out in 
FY 2023-24, followed a comprehensive 5-step methodology 
based on the requirements of benchmark sustainability 
disclosure frameworks such as SEBI’s Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) framework, GRI 
Standards (2021), and the international <IR> framework.
To holistically assess the impacts of its business activities, 
the Bank adopted the double-materiality concept, analysing 
both the impacts that its business has on the economy, 
environment, and people, including impacts on their human 
rights; and the impact of current sustainability issues on the 
Bank’s own enterprise value creation process.
Operating in one of the world’s fastest-growing economies, YES BANK sits at the centre 
of a dynamic financial landscape where the Bank’s business not only supports India’s 
economic progress, but also plays a pivotal role in advancing national sustainability goals. 
Integrating sustainability-related considerations into the way the Bank conducts its business, is 
a strategic priority at the Bank, with a recognition that its environmental and social impacts are 
equally as important as its economic contributions. In order to ascertain the key sustainability 
issues most pertinent to our business and while charting out a roadmap that aims to minimize and 
mitigate the overall negative impacts, and augment its positive outcomes, the Bank proactively 
works with its stakeholders to understand and identify the most significant environmental, social 
and economic impacts of its activities and business relationships.
1 GRI 2-14
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
77
Methodology: Materiality Assessment FY 2023-24 - reviewed in FY 2024-25
	y Undertaking a comprehensive desk-research, BFSI sector peer benchmarking, and internal 
deliberations to curate an extensive list of impacts that arise or may arise from the 
Bank’s business
	y Covering impacts that could positively or negatively affect the economy, environment, and 
people, (including impacts on their human rights), and impacts that in-turn could affect the 
Bank’s enterprise value creation process
	y 83 impacts were identified, categorised, and clubbed under 15 potential material topics as 
part of the Bank’s materiality assessment carried out in FY 2023-24
	y The ratings of each topic were plotted on two axes, “importance to enterprise value 
creation” and “importance to external stakeholders”
	y The median rating was taken to be the materiality threshold for both aspects
	y 11 out of 15 topics rated on or above the median were determined as the Bank’s most 
significant material topics
	y The final materiality ratings and material topics were approved by the Sustainability Council 
and the CSR & ESG Committee of the Board in FY 2023-24
	y Each identified impact was evaluated as positive or negative and actual or potential 
and assigned a 'significance' score based on its severity, likelihood, scale and scope, and 
impact on human rights. The Bank’s top management and senior leadership reviewed the 
'significance' rating of the impact
	y Roll-out of a stakeholder engagement programme to gather insights from the Bank’s key 
stakeholders on the materiality of the impacts identified
	y A curated digital survey to collect stakeholder ratings on the materiality of all impacts
	y The survey in FY 2023-24 covered 11 key internal and external stakeholder groups: Top 
Management, Regulators, Employees, Customers, Shareholders & Investors, Financial & ESG 
Analysts, Business Associates, Suppliers, Media, Industry & Peers, and Community groups
	y The stakeholder ratings (step 2) and the significance scores (step 3) were mapped to 
arrive at the prioritisation of the identified impacts and the corresponding 15 potential 
material topics
Impact 
Identification
1
Stakeholder 
Engagement
2
Impact 
Prioritisation
4
Impact 
Significance
3
Materiality  
Matrix
5
In FY 2024-25, the Bank's Sustainability Council and the CSR & ESG Committee of the Board, undertook a review of the 
11 material topics, and finding them to be appropriate, approved the material topics with no amendments1.
1 GRI 2-14
78
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Materiality Matrix FY 2024-25
IMPORTANCE TO ENTERPRISE VALUE CREATION
IMPORTANCE TO EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
MT-4
MT-5
MT-2
MT-3
MT-7
MT-1
MT-6
MT-10
MT-9
MT-8
MT-11
MT-12
MT-13
MT-14
MT-15
Materiality Matrix: 
The Bank’s materiality matrix was constructed by plotting the ratings of material topics by “Importance to Enterprise 
Value Creation” on the X axis and by “Importance to external stakeholders” on the Y axis. There were no changes to the 
material topics in FY 2024-25, from the previous year.
For further information on the management of each Material Topic, refer to the following sections1:
1 GRI 3-2
Governance and Compliance 
 Page 94
Business Ethics 
 Page 94
Data Security & Privacy 
 Page 154
Digital Innovation 
 Page 150
Customer Relations 
 Page 147
Employment Practices 
 Page 127
M-1
M-2
M-6
M-5
M-4
M-3
Progress on Profitability 
 Page 162
Climate Action 
 Page 114
Financial Inclusion 
 Page 143
Operational Eco-efficiency 
 Page 110
Sustainable Finance 
 Page 120
M-7
M-8
M-11
M-10
M-9
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
79
IMPACTS
GOVERNANCE
KEY IMPACTS
Polarity
Nature
Horizon
Dimension
Impacts on Stakeholders
Key Policies and Processes1:
	y
Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics
	y
Policy on Code for 
Corporate Governance
	y
Board Diversity and Fit 
& Proper Criteria and 
Succession Planning
	y
Remuneration Policy
	y
Tax Strategy
	y
Risk and Compliance Culture  
Policy
	y
Enables efficient functioning & value creation 
for stakeholders, leading to overall social and 
economic development
Actual
Short
Social
	y
Prudent governance and risk management practices, 
enhance economic stability and reduce risks and impacts of 
economic crises
Potential
Long
Social
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
	y
Transparency boosts stakeholder including investor 
confidence, which helps in reducing cost of capital and 
enhances communication with the Bank’s stakeholders
Actual
Short
Cost
	y
Helps safeguard against risks and improves enterprise value
Actual
Long
Cost
	y
Improves decision-making and efficiency, strengthens 
reputation and brand image, and helps attract talent 
and retain employees
Actual
Long
Cost
	y
Good compliance culture reduces risks of fines, penalties  
and litigation
Potential
Short
Risk
Governance  
and Compliance1
 MATERIAL TOPIC
Governance and compliance refers to the approach of YES BANK's Board and Management to 
enhance accountability and transparency, and systematise prudent controls, risk management and 
reporting in organisational processes and strategies. Good compliance culture refers to the Bank’s 
conformance with all local, regional, national and international laws, regulations and policies.
M-1
Business  
Ethics1
 MATERIAL TOPIC
Business ethics refers to the organisational principles, policies and codes that guide the Bank in 
carrying out its business with the highest standards of ethics and integrity. It includes the Bank's 
code of conduct, and its norms regarding bribery, corruption, money laundering, and other unethical 
business practices.
IMPACTS
GOVERNANCE
KEY IMPACTS
Polarity
Nature
Horizon
Dimension
Impacts on Stakeholders
Board-level:
	y
Audit Committee
	y
Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee
Management-level:
	y
Apex Management Committee
	y
Disciplinary Committee
Key Policies and Processes1:
	y
Code of Conduct
	y
Anti-Bribery and Anti-
Corruption (ABAC) Policy
	y
Know Your Customer and Anti-Money 
Laundering (KYC & AML) Policy
	y
Whistle Blower Policy
	y
ESG Code of Conduct
	y
Code of Conduct for Prohibition of 
Insider Trading
	y
Human Rights Policy
	y
Bribery, corruption and restrictive/unfair trade practices 
impede efficient functioning of economic systems, leading 
to negative customer experience
Potential
Long
Social
	y
Practices like money laundering proliferate crime, 
increase corruption, & shift economic power towards 
antisocial elements
Potential
Long
Social
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
	y
Unethical business practices have negative impact on 
reputation and credibility, and impede ability to raise 
capital, affect capacity to attract customers and employees
Potential
Short
Cost
	y
Unethical practices lead to risk of fines, 
penalties and litigation
Potential
Short
Risk
M-2
Positive
Negative
1 GRI 2-23, GRI 3-3
80
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Governance  
and Compliance
 MATERIAL TOPIC
STRATEGIC ACTIONS1
RISKS  
IMPACTED
PERFORMANCE
	y
The Bank has established 11 Board-level Committees which assist in 
discharging its responsibilities
	y
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee, with a majority of independent 
directors, recommends appointment of Directors & reviews Board’s 
performance evaluation framework
	y
The Bank has implemented a comprehensive Enterprise Risk Governance 
framework with 3-Lines of Defence comprising business management, 
independent functions, and internal audit
	y
The Bank's Compliance Department ensures compliance to regulatory 
requirements, with the Chief Compliance Officer reporting directly to the 
Audit Committee of the Board and the Bank monitoring Compliance Risk as 
a standalone risk
	y
The Bank's employees receive regular trainings on regulatory compliances 
and compliance-related subjects
R-1
R-5
R-6
	y
54% directors on the Bank’s Board are 
Independent Directors
	y
~9 years average vintage of Top and Senior 
Management Team
	y
Zero incidents of non-compliance 
with voluntary codes concerning 
marketing communications
	y
Zero instances of disciplinary action taken  
by any law enforcement agency for the 
charges of bribery/corruption against  
Directors/KMPs/employees
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC BUSINESS  
OBJECTIVES (SBO)
SBO-8  
CAPITALS  
IMPACTED
C-1
  
C-2
  
C-3
 
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC BUSINESS  
OBJECTIVES (SBO)
SBO-7   SBO-8  
Business  
Ethics
 MATERIAL TOPIC
STRATEGIC ACTIONS1
RISKS  
IMPACTED
PERFORMANCE
	y
The Bank has instituted a Code of Conduct and key policies related to 
anti-bribery and anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, whistle blower 
mechanism amongst others to foster and promote ethical and responsible 
business conduct
	y
In order to address misconduct and any non-adherence to Bank’s Code of 
Conduct and all relevant statutory and regulatory stipulations, as applicable, 
the Bank has put in place appropriate measures within the compensation 
structure itself
	y
The Bank's employees are provided mandatory trainings on the Code of 
Conduct, ABAC Policy, KYC and AML Policy as part of induction training and 
refresher certifications on a regular basis
	y
As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, the Bank has instituted an 
ESG Code of Conduct for its suppliers, based on the 10 principles of the 
UNGC and has taken steps to assess and enhance the ESG awareness and 
preparedness of its supplier base
R-5
R-6
	y
98.49% employees covered under mandatory 
trainings on the Bank’s Codes of Conduct, 
Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption and Anti-
Money Laundering Policies
	y
Zero public legal cases regarding Corruption 
brought against the organisation or its 
employees during the reporting period
	y
Zero incidents/violations related to 
corruption that led to terminations/ 
non-renewal of contracts with suppliers 
during the year
CAPITALS  
IMPACTED
C-2
  
C-5
 
1 GRI 2-24
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
81
Data Security & 
Privacy1
 MATERIAL TOPIC
Ensuring data security and privacy refers to the Bank’s commitment to safeguard privacy and 
confidentiality of the customer's personal information against the cybersecurity threats through 
secure technologies and enhanced identity protection.
IMPACTS
GOVERNANCE
KEY IMPACTS
Polarity
Nature
Horizon
Dimension
Impacts on Stakeholders
Board-level:
	y
Risk 
Management Committee
	y
IT Strategy Committee
Management-level:
	y
Security Council
	y
Fraud & Suspicious 
Transaction 
Monitoring Committee
Key Policies and Processes1:
	y
Data Security 
& Privacy Policy
	y
Data Handling Policy
	y
Information Security Policy
	y
Cyber Security Policy
	y
Data security incidents risk disruption of critical services
Potential
Long
Social
	y
Poor data security and privacy protection leads 
to loss of customer’s personal information risking 
identity theft/fraud
Potential
Short
Social
	y
Data security events/incidents cause customers to lose 
confidence in digital channels/banking system as a whole 
Potential
Long
Social
	y
Robust data systems encourage the use of digital channels
Actual
Long
Social
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
	y
Robust systems build reputation of reliability and integrity
Actual
Long
Risk
	y
Leak of sensitive internal data or customer information 
leads to operational and reputational risk
Potential
Long
Risk
	y
Failure to follow data privacy laws leads to fines or lawsuits
Potential
Short
Risk
M3
M-3
Digital  
Innovation1
 MATERIAL TOPIC
Advancing digital innovation refers to the Bank’s ability to consolidate its market leadership in 
digital banking and ensure it is future-ready through continued investments in technology and 
talent. This transformation encompasses initiatives to elevate customer experience, improve data 
driven decision-making and enhance partnerships with stakeholders within the digital ecosystem.
IMPACTS
GOVERNANCE
KEY IMPACTS
Polarity
Nature
Horizon
Dimension
Impacts on Stakeholders
Board-level:
	y
Risk Management  
Committee
	y
IT Strategy Committee
Management-level:
	y
IT Steering Committee
Key Policies and Processes1:
	y
Policy on Issuance and 
Operations of -Domestic 
Prepaid Instruments
	y
Bank as a Payment 
Aggregator – Merchant 
Onboarding Policy
	y
Digitising paper-based processes reduces use 
of paper & waste
Actual
Short
Environment
	y
Digital channels enable customers to access banking 
services at the convenience of their home and at a 
click of a button
Actual
Short
Social
	y
Digital platforms deepen reach & access of financial 
services amongst unbanked, hard to reach communities
Actual
Short
Social
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
	y
Efficient digital banking solutions enhance customer 
satisfaction, loyalty and retention
Actual
Short
Cost
	y
Continued investments in technology and digital 
infrastructure strengthens market share in digital 
different on-line fund transfer modes, payments, 
customer servicing etc.
Actual
Long
Revenue
M-4
Positive
Negative
1 GRI 2-23, GRI 3-3
82
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Data Security &  
Privacy
 MATERIAL TOPIC
STRATEGIC ACTIONS1
RISKS  
IMPACTED
PERFORMANCE
	y
The Bank has a well-defined governance structure for information 
security and data protection, with Board-level and management-level 
oversight, supported by policies for Data Handling, Information Security 
and Cyber Security
	y
The Bank has implemented an ISO 27001:2022 certified information security 
management system
	y
The Bank regularly conducts trainings, awareness campaigns and simulated 
drills for employees, vendors, customers, and other stakeholders on global 
cyber security threats, and issues guidance on using digital platforms in a 
safe and secure manner
R-6
R-12
	y
Zero instances of data breaches, identified 
leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data
	y
Zero data breaches involving personally 
identifiable information of customers
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC BUSINESS  
OBJECTIVES (SBO)
SBO-5   SBO-6   SBO-7   SBO-8
CAPITALS  
IMPACTED
C-5
  
C-6
   
Digital  
Innovation
 MATERIAL TOPIC
STRATEGIC ACTIONS1
RISKS  
IMPACTED
PERFORMANCE
	y
The Bank has well-defined policies and frameworks for its digital products & 
services, with oversight from two Board-level committees
	y
The Bank has enabled omni-channel customer engagement, seamless 
payment solutions & assisted digital model for mass-market products 
through its Digital Product Suite and continues to advance its new-age 
digital product offerings
	y
Leveraging its leadership in API banking, the Bank has developed key 
partnerships within the digital ecosystem to foster innovation and 
strengthen its connected banking propositions
	y
The Bank actively engages on various Central Government’s initiatives on 
Digital Public Infrastructure to refine its client offerings and contribute to 
the growth of the Digital franchise
R-12
	y
#1 UPI Payee Payment Service Provider 
(PSP) with 56.9% market share*
	y
#1 Acquiring AePS Bank, with 39.21%  
market share*
	y
~95% eligible current accounts 
sourced digitally
*Market share for entire FY 2024-25 basis NPCI data
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC BUSINESS  
OBJECTIVES (SBO)
SBO-6   SBO-7  
CAPITALS  
IMPACTED
C-1
  
C-4
  
C-6
 
1 GRI 2-24
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
83
Customer 
Relations1
 MATERIAL TOPIC
Good customer relations refers to the Bank's efforts towards building long-term relationships 
with its customers through its differentiated offerings & solutions, high quality customer service, 
prompt grievance redressal, customer education, responsible selling practices including accurate 
product information.
IMPACTS
GOVERNANCE
KEY IMPACTS
Polarity
Nature
Horizon
Dimension
Impacts on Stakeholders
Board-level:
	y
Customer 
Service Committee
Management-level:
	y
Standing Committee on 
Customer Service
Key Policies and Processes1:
	y
Code of Conduct
	y
Policy on Collection 
of Dues and 
Repossession of Security
	y
Customer Grievance 
Redressal Policy
	y
Increases customer satisfaction and delight
Actual
Short
Social
	y
Encourages responsible selling practices across ecosystems
Potential
Long
Social
	y
Enhances financial literacy, facilitates the uptake of credit, 
and increases access to financial services
Actual
Long
Social
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
	y
Leads to enhanced customer loyalty and retention
Actual
Short
Cost
	y
Increases promoter scores amongst customers and 
improves brand advocacy
Actual
Short
Revenue
	y
Increases opportunities for upselling and cross-selling
Actual
Short
Revenue
	y
Poor customer relations lead to customer attrition and a 
damage to reputation
Potential
Short
Cost
	y
Unethical selling/wrong product information risks fines, 
penalties, trading restrictions, regulatory actions and loss 
of customer trust
Potential
Long
Risk
M-5
Employment 
Practices1
 MATERIAL TOPIC
Good employment practices refers to the Bank's policies, processes, practices and initiatives 
towards building an open, inclusive, healthy, diverse and growth-oriented workplace. This includes 
fair and inclusive hiring practices; non-discrimination policies, workforce diversity; training, 
development and growth, occupational health & safety, employee engagement; and ensuring 
human resource related compliances.
IMPACTS
GOVERNANCE
KEY IMPACTS
Polarity
Nature
Horizon
Dimension
Impacts on Stakeholders
Board-level:
	y
Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee
Management-level:
	y
Disciplinary Committee
	y
Internal Committee under POSH
	y
Whistle Blower Committee
Key Policies and Processes1:
	y
Code of Conduct
	y
Equal Opportunity Policy
	y
Policy on Sexual Harassment
	y
Occupational Health 
and Safety Policy
	y
Total Rewards Policy
	y
Employee Volunteering Policy
Key Commitments
	y
30% share of women in 
workforce by 2030
	y
Creates new employment opportunities in the economy 
Actual
Long
Social
	y
Enhances individual skills, knowledge and employability 
Actual
Long
Social
	y
Ensures good health & wellbeing of individuals & their families 
Actual
Long
Social
	y
Reduces marginalisation of vulnerable groups, such as women, 
minorities, & migrants through inclusivity & non-discrimination
Long
Social
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
	y
Boosts boost employee morale, satisfaction and loyalty 
towards the organisation
Actual
Long
Cost
	y
Strengthens ability to attract new talent and retain employees
Actual
Short
Cost
	y
Improves employee participation and engagement in their 
jobs leading to better productivity and performance
Actual
Short
Cost
	y
Committed employees help contribute positively to 
performance by being vigilant of risks and opportunities, 
and fostering innovation & ownership
Actual
Short
Risk
M-6
Positive
Negative
1 GRI 2-23, GRI 3-3
84
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Customer  
Relations
 MATERIAL TOPIC
STRATEGIC ACTIONS1
RISKS  
IMPACTED
PERFORMANCE
	y
The Bank has set up a comprehensive governance structure for overseeing its performance 
on customer service with oversight by the executive-level Standing Committee on 
Customer Service and the Customer Service Committee of the Board
	y
The Bank has instituted robust policies on collection of dues and repossession of security, 
and customer grievance redressal
	y
Through its Code of Conduct and other policies, the Bank promotes responsible selling 
practices. All of the Bank’s collection and repo agencies and their executives must undergo 
mandatory trainings on the CoC
	y
The Bank continues to invest technology and artificial intelligence for enhancing customer 
service though offerings like YES Robot and YES Genie
	y
Valuing the views and feedback of its customers, the Bank captures the Voice of the 
Customer (VOC) and Customer Scoring through transaction and engagement feedback. 
The Bank has measured customer satisfaction across touchpoints through the VOC survey 
and institutionalised Net Promoter Score (NPS) as a key metric to drive superior service 
experience, customer loyalty and advocacy, across its various channels
	y
Performance on customer service is also integrated into employee performance appraisal, 
which in turn is linked with employee remuneration. Relevant employees are provided 
regular training on customer service
	y
The Bank has instituted a comprehensive 3-Level Grievance Redressal Mechanism for 
addressing customer queries and complaints
R-6
	y
74 Net Promoter Score for  
FY 2024-25 (an improvement 
from last year’s NPS of 70)
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC BUSINESS  
OBJECTIVES (SBO)
SBO-1   SBO-3   SBO-4   SBO-7
CAPITALS  
IMPACTED
C-4
  
C-5
  
Employment  
Practices
 MATERIAL TOPIC
STRATEGIC ACTIONS1
RISKS  
IMPACTED
PERFORMANCE
	y
The Bank's code and other policies are aimed at fostering a culture of equal 
opportunity, diversity and inclusion, gender equality, and to prevent all types of 
harassment and discrimination
	y
The Bank offers its employees tailored training programmes covering technical 
skills, industry knowledge, and essential soft skills
	y
The Bank undertakes various initiatives to nurture physical, mental, and 
emotional well-being of employees, and has also implemented an ISO 45001:2018 
Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSMS)
	y
The Bank has a dedicated ‘Employee Service Desk’ to support and redress 
employee queries and grievances
	y
The Bank has a robust and transparent performance review process which 
includes self-assessment, assessments by reporting authority and reviewer, and a 
Committee Review
R-8
R-9
	y
23.17% share of women’s 
participation in the workforce 
in FY 2024-25, up from 21.8% 
the previous year
	y
99.4% return to work rate 
after maternal leave
	y
6.72 average training 
days per employee
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC BUSINESS  
OBJECTIVES (SBO)
SBO-8  
CAPITALS  
IMPACTED
C-2
 
1 GRI 2-24
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
85
Climate  
Action1
 MATERIAL TOPIC
Climate action refers to the steps the Bank takes towards strategically integrating climate 
considerations into its business, including addressing climate risks, setting and disclosing emission 
reduction targets and decarbonisation its portfolio in line with global decarbonisation scenarios.
IMPACTS
GOVERNANCE
KEY IMPACTS
Polarity
Nature
Horizon
Dimension
Impacts on Stakeholders
Board- level:
	y
CSR & ESG Committee
	y
Risk Management  
Committee
Management-level:
	y
Sustainability Council
Key Policies and Processes1:
	y
Environment & 
Social Policy (ESP)
Key Commitments
	y
Founding Member and 
signatory to the Principles 
for Responsible Banking
	y
50% reduction in financed 
emission intensity of its 
electricity generation 
portfolio, striving for 
75% reduction by  
FY 2031-32 (from base 
year FY 2021-22)
	y
Operations and financed projects generate carbon 
emissions, which if remains unmitigated or unchecked may 
contribute to increasing global warming
Actual
Long
Environment
	y
Financing and investment in green opportunities, 
contributes to avoidance of emissions
Actual
Long
Environment
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
	y
Increase in the frequency and severity of extreme weather 
and climatic events affects infrastructure, employees and 
client performance and therefore revenues and costs
Potential
Long
Cost
	y
Stricter environmental/climatic regulations and policy 
changes may impact operations/strategy
Potential
Long
Risk
	y
Climate risk factors may increase market and operational 
risks, due to factors like fluctuations in energy commodity 
prices due to the transition on carbon-intensive industries
Potential
Long
Risk
	y
Higher insurance risk premiums on owned assets 
vulnerable to climate change
Potential
Long
Cost
M-8
IMPACTS
GOVERNANCE
KEY IMPACTS
Polarity
Nature
Horizon
Dimension
Impacts on Stakeholders
Board- level:
	y
Audit Committee
	y
Risk Management Committee
	y
Customer Service Committee
	y
Capital Raising Committee
	y
Board Credit Committee
Management-level:
	y
Apex Management Committee
	y
Operational Risk 
Management Committee
	y
Enterprise Risk 
Management Committee
	y
Stressed Asset 
Monitoring Committee
	y
Management Credit Committee
	y
Asset & Liability 
Management Committee
	y
Executive Credit Committee
	y
Higher profitability results in maximising 
shareholder returns
Potential
Long
Social
	y
Aids in significantly improving perception among 
stakeholders including customers, credit rating agencies, 
vendors and suppliers etc.
Potential
Long
Social
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
	y
Profitable franchise provides adequate cushion to capital 
position and balance sheet from external shocks
Potential
Short
Cost
	y
Generating efficiencies from cost optimisation can create 
headroom for suitable investments
Actual
Short
Revenue
	y
Absence of an efficient cost-structure may result in 
unwanted cost escalations and sub-optimal profitability
Potential
Short
Cost
Progress on 
Profitability1
 MATERIAL TOPIC
Progress on profitability refers to the Bank’s commitment towards building a long-term sustainable 
franchise which delivers profitable growth on a consistent and predictable basis. This includes 
building a robust income engine with sustainably superior Net Interest Margins (NIM) and diverse 
fee pools, coupled with an optimum cost structure, which aids in generating superlative operating 
profits. At the same time, ensuring a strong credit and risk management culture to minimise credit 
costs, leading to maximisation of RoA profile.
M-7
Positive
Negative
1 GRI 2-23, GRI 3-3
86
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC BUSINESS  
OBJECTIVES (SBO)
SBO-8  
Climate  
Action
 MATERIAL TOPIC
STRATEGIC ACTIONS1
RISKS  
IMPACTED
PERFORMANCE 
	y
The Bank has instituted a robust climate governance structure, with 
oversight from two Board-level committees – CSR & ESG Committee and 
Risk Management Committee
	y
The Bank has included climate-related KPIs into the goal sheets of the 
MD&CEO and relevant executive management, including the CFO
	y
Climate risk is integrated into multi-disciplinary company-wide risk 
management processes and as a material Pillar II risk in its Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP)
	y
In line with Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
recommendations, the Bank has instituted robust systems for managing 
climate-related risks at the organisational, project and portfolio levels
	y
The Bank has measured and reported financed emissions and undertaken a 
target to reduce the financed emission intensity of its electricity generation 
sector portfolio
	y
The Bank continues to mobilise finance towards climate-aligned sectors 
such as renewable energy and Electric Vehicles through targeted financial 
mechanisms and products such as green bonds and YES Kiran (rooftop solar 
loans dedicated to SMEs)
	y
The Bank has established a Green Deposit Policy and Financing Framework 
aimed at channelising finance towards climate-aligned sectors
R-2
R-5
R-11
	y
39% reduction in financed emission 
intensity of electricity generation portfolio 
(from base year FY 2020-21)
	y
Rated A- Leadership Band by CDP for its 
2024 Climate Change disclosures – highest 
rated Indian Bank for climate disclosures
	y
728 ktCO2e of annual attributable 
emissions avoided through renewable 
energy financing
CAPITALS  
IMPACTED
C-1
  
C-3
  
C-5
 
STRATEGIC ACTIONS1
RISKS  
IMPACTED
PERFORMANCE
	y
The Bank continues to strengthen its strategic investments in the priority 
sector lending arena by increasing the proportion of its PSL compliant book & 
accessing new geographies & capabilities
	y
The Bank continues to optimise its product and sourcing mix to improve 
its RoA and reduce its cost of acquisition, while retaining the overall 
product risk profile
	y
With its expertise in the SME and Mid Corporate segments, the Bank remains 
committed to offering outstanding service focussed & tech-driven solutions 
to cater to evolving customer needs
	y
The Bank continues to augment the penetration of its product offerings 
in its growing network of branches, to reduce its cost of acquisition and 
improve profitability
	y
The Bank leverages its technology infrastructure and multi-pronged delivery 
channels to enhance scale and drive efficiency & profitability across its 
business verticals
R-2
R-3
R-4
R-7
R-8
R-10
	y
Highest full-year net profit since 
reconstruction, of ` 2,406 crore 
(up 92.3% Y-O-Y)
	y
1.6% GNPA ratio in FY 2024-25 (down from 
1.7 in FY 2023-24) and reduced NNPA ratio 
to 0.3% (from 0.6% in FY 2023-24)
	y
Implemented ‘Agency Bank’ mandate of the 
Government & RBI to enable tax collection
Progress on  
Profitability
 MATERIAL TOPIC
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC BUSINESS  
OBJECTIVES (SBO)
SBO-1   SBO-2   SBO-3   SBO-4   SBO-5   SBO-6
CAPITALS  
IMPACTED
C-2
 
1 GRI 2-24
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
87
Financial  
Inclusion1
 MATERIAL TOPIC
Advancing financial inclusion refers to the Bank's initiatives and policies aimed at enhancing the 
reach and access of financial services and increasing financial literacy amongst the unbanked and 
underbanked populations of rural and semi-urban India. Social financing refers to channelised 
funding towards priority sectors such as agriculture and SMEs to bring a sharper focus on 
inclusive development.
IMPACTS
GOVERNANCE
KEY IMPACTS
Polarity
Nature
Horizon
Dimension
Impacts on Stakeholders
Board- level:
	y
The Board oversees the 
Bank’s Financial  
Inclusion Plan
Key Policies and Processes1:
	y
Board-approved 
Financial Inclusion Plan
	y
Reduces income inequality and boost economic output
Actual
Long
Social
	y
Prevents vulnerable communities from falling prey to 
unregulated money lenders and over indebtedness
Actual
Long
Social
	y
Helps accelerate gender equality and women’s 
economic empowerment
Actual
Long
Social
	y
Priority sector lending channelises social finance towards 
economic sectors that contribute to national priorities
Actual
Long
Social
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
	y
Failure to comply with priority sector lending requirements 
results in risk of regulatory action
Potential
Short
Risk
	y
Enhancing social finance towards national priority areas 
contributes to India’s SDGs, creates positive impact and 
build transformative relationships with key stakeholders
Potential
Long
Revenue
M-9
Operational  
Eco-efficiency1
 MATERIAL TOPIC
Improving operational eco-efficiency refers to the Bank's ability to carry out its business by 
minimising the utilisation of natural resources, limiting the negative environmental impacts of its 
operations, reducing its carbon footprint, driving continual improvements in eco-efficiency and 
adhering to all applicable environmental laws and regulations.
IMPACTS
GOVERNANCE
KEY IMPACTS
Polarity
Nature
Horizon
Dimension
Impacts on Stakeholders
Board- level:
	y
CSR & ESG Committee
Management-level:
	y
Sustainability Council
Key Policies and Processes1:
	y
Environmental 
Management Policy
	y
Environmental 
Management System
Key Commitments
	y
Net Zero Scope 
1 and Scope 2 
Emissions by 2030
	y
Energy consumption from non-renewable energy sources 
contributes to CO₂ emissions, causing of global warming
Actual
Long
Environment
	y
Improper disposal/recycling of e-waste leads to pollution of 
natural ecosystems
Actual
Long
Environment
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
	y
Failure to comply with applicable environmental laws/ 
regulations results in a risk of fines, lawsuits, and 
reputation loss
Potential
Long
Risk
	y
Emerging regulations and stakeholder expectations makes 
operations vulnerable to climate-related transition risks
Potential
Long
Risk
	y
Unaddressed climate change makes operations  
& facilities prone to extreme weather events &  
climate-related physical risks
Potential
Long
Risk
M-10
Positive
Negative
1 GRI 2-23, GRI 3-3
88
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Financial  
Inclusion
 MATERIAL TOPIC
STRATEGIC ACTIONS1
RISKS  
IMPACTED
PERFORMANCE
	y
The Bank has established a large network of 235 Business Correspondent 
Banking Outlets (BCBO), to provide asset and liability solutions to over  
1.23 lakh customers in the rural segment
	y
The Bank promotes government schemes such as PMJDY and KCC; offers 
women borrowers microfinance loans through YES Microfinance, caters to 
the financial needs of farmers through crop and farm mechanisation loans; 
meets the remittance need of migrants, under-banked populations through 
its digital YES Money platform
	y
The Bank has catalysed employment and entrepreneurship opportunities 
for over 68,000 beneficiaries till date, under its CSR commitment to reach 
100,000 youth, farmers, women and artisans by 2026
R-5
R-6
R-8
	y
6.49 lakh active women borrowers in  
rural India
	y
` 1,383 crore disbursed to women 
microfinance borrowers in FY 2024-25
	y
121,800 PMJDY accounts 
opened in FY 2024-25
	y
` 3,997 crore term lending to microfinance 
institutions for on-lending in FY 2024-25
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC BUSINESS  
OBJECTIVES (SBO)
SBO-2   SBO-7   SBO-8  
CAPITALS  
IMPACTED
C-1
  
C-4
  
C-5
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC BUSINESS  
OBJECTIVES (SBO)
SBO-1   SBO-8  
Operational  
Eco-efficiency
 MATERIAL TOPIC
STRATEGIC ACTIONS1
RISKS  
IMPACTED
PERFORMANCE
	y
The Bank has instituted a comprehensive ISO 14001:2015 certified 
Environmental Management System (EMS) with highest coverage (1,186 
facilities), in banking sector, globally
	y
In line with its target to achieve net zero by 2030 (Scope 1 and Scope 2), the 
Bank has migrated key facilities including its head office to renewable energy
	y
The Bank has appointed central authorised vendors for collection, recycling 
and responsible disposal of its e-waste, battery waste and other hazardous 
waste from all its facilities
R-5
R-11
	y
~7,446 tCO2e avoided by migrating facilities 
to renewable energy
	y
~26% Y-O-Y reduction in combined 
S1 and S2 emission intensity (per 
rupee of turnover)
	y
20.21% share of renewables in the Bank’s 
electricity mix (consumption)
	y
1,186 Facilities covered under  
ISO 14001:2015 certified EMS
	y
~23.61% reduction in Energy intensity  
(per rupee of turnover) Y-O-Y
CAPITALS  
IMPACTED
C-3
  
C-4
  
C-5
1 GRI 2-24
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
89
Sustainable 
Finance1
 MATERIAL TOPIC
Sustainable finance refers to the process of integrating environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) considerations in investment decisions, leading to increased longer-term investments in 
sustainable economic activities and projects. This includes the mobilisation of finance needed for 
private investments towards achievement of the Paris Agreement and SDGs.
IMPACTS
GOVERNANCE
KEY IMPACTS
Polarity
Nature
Horizon
Dimension
Impacts on Stakeholders
Board- level:
	y
Risk 
Management Committee
	y
CSR & ESG Committee
Management-level:
	y
Sustainability Council
Key Policies and Processes1:
	y
Environment & Social  
Policy (ESP)
	y
Environment and  
Social Risk Management  
System (ESRMS)
Key Commitments
	y
Founding Member 
and signatory to 
the Principles for 
Responsible Banking
	y
Enables the Bank to support SDGs, contribute to 
India’s net zero ambition, and minimise negative socio-
environmental impacts
Potential
Long
Environment
	y
Provides an opportunity to the banking sector to work with 
clients across industries to drive low carbon transition
Potential
Long
Environment
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
	y
Improves ESG ratings, & attracts ESG focussed 
investors & capital
Potential
Long
Revenue
	y
Improves reputation amongst sustainability focussed 
customers, builds a competitive advantage to unlock 
opportunities in sunrise sectors, and strengthen 
relationship with ESG-aligned stakeholder groups
Potential
Long
Revenue
	y
Mitigates exposure to ESG-related risks and allows 
capitalising on emerging opportunities
Potential
Long
Revenue
M-11
Positive
Negative
1 GRI 2-23, GRI 3-3
90
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Sustainable  
Finance
 MATERIAL TOPIC
STRATEGIC ACTIONS1
RISKS  
IMPACTED
PERFORMANCE
	y
The Bank has adopted an Environment and Social Policy (ESP) based on 
international frameworks such as IFC Performance Standards, which 
serves as a structured approach towards responsible lending. The Bank has 
instituted an Environment and Social Risk Management System (ESRMS) to 
assess and mitigate E&S risks of its financing activities
	y
The Bank issued India’s first green bond for channelising finance towards 
India’s renewable energy sector
	y
In line with the new extant guidelines issued by RBI on its Framework for 
acceptance of Green Deposits, the Bank has put in place a Board-approved 
Green Deposit Policy and Financing Framework and is in the process of rolling 
out its Green Deposit programme
	y
The Bank continues to channelise financing to climate-aligned sectors such 
as renewable energy, electric vehicles and other socially critical sectors such 
as SMEs and affordable housing
R-8
R-11
	y
728 ktCO2e of annual attributable 
emissions avoided through the renewable 
energy financing
	y
` 43,651 crore SME advances as 
at March 31, 2025
	y
` 7,357 crore in sanctioned debt 
for supporting renewable energy 
projects of ~2,210 MW
	y
` 7,398 crore Khushi (Affordable) Home 
loans portfolio in FY 2024-25
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC BUSINESS  
OBJECTIVES (SBO)
SBO-8  
CAPITALS  
IMPACTED
C-1
  
C-3
  
C-5
1 GRI 2-24
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
91
92
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Our Value Creation Model
Our Vision and Mission
Deliver excellence in financial services, be a 
preferred Banker to customers and an employer of 
choice, and deliver responsible growth
YES BANK's mission is to establish a high-quality, 
customer-centric, service-driven, Bank of choice by providing 
new-age banking solutions, with a focus on sustainable growth
Capital inputs
Business Model
Financial Capital (C1)
	y Shareholder's Funds: ` 47,780 crore
	y Deposits: ` 284,525 crore
	y Borrowings: ` 71,603 crore
Natural Capital (C3)
	y 40,451.21 MWh of grid electricity consumed (non-renewable energy sources)
	y 10,243.27 MWh of grid electricity consumed (renewable energy sources)
	y ` 4.68 crore in investments towards energy conservation
	y ` 7,357 crore in sanctioned debt facilities towards RE projects of ~2,210 MW
	y ` 132.02 crore in outstanding loans towards Electric Vehicles
	y Robust Climate Governance, Environment and Social Risk Management System 
(ESMS) and Environmental Management System (EMS)
	y Target to achieve net zero emissions from operations by 2030
	y Target to reduce financed emissions intensity of the Bank's electricity 
generation loan portfolio
Manufactured Capital (C4)
	y 8 Major Offices and 24 other Offices
	y 1,255 Branches, 1,331 ATMs / CRMs / BNAs and 235 BCBOs
	y 1 representative office in Abu Dhabi
	y 1 IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) in Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT)
	y 235 BCBOs covering 300+ districts
	y Investments towards technology/ IT Costs: ` 1,227 crore
	y 4 state-of-the-art data centres in Maharashtra and Karnataka
Social & Relationship Capital (C5)
	y Serving diverse customer segments including corporates, SMEs, individuals,  
rural women and farmers
	y 6.49 lakh active women customer base in rural India
	y 80,000+ active farmer borrower base
	y Diverse base of 15,250+ suppliers
	y Voice of the Customer scoring and NPS to measure customer experience
	y Strong information security/cyber security governance
	y Target to catalyse employment & entrepreneurship opportunities for 100,000 beneficiaries  
including 25,000 youth and 75,000 farmers, women and artisans by 2026
Intellectual Capital (C6)
	y Best-in-class technology / API stack
	y Dominant leadership in digital payments
	y 1,500+ API Stack developed in-house
Human Capital (C2)
	y Full Time Employees (FTE): 28,690 YES BANKers 
	y New hires during the year: 11,825
	y Investment towards Human Resources: ` 4,008 crore
	y ` 1,416 spent per FTE on Training & Development in FY 2024-25
	y Target to increase women’s participation in workforce to 30% by 2030
	y Cost incurred on wellbeing measures amounting to 0.22% of revenue in FY 2024-25
Value is created over time as stocks of capitals increase
Product and 
Service offerings
Operating Environment  
and Strategy 
Stakeholder  
Interests and  
expectations
V
a
l
u
e
 
C
r
e
a
t
i
o
n
*As at July 19, 2025	
	
#As at March 31, 2025
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
PG 50-93
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
93
Strategic Pillars
Material Topics
Key Outcomes
Staying  
universal,  
but going  
granular
Being a  
preferred  
Banker to the  
new economy
Being  
efficient  
yet  
empathetic
MT1- Governance & Compliance
MT7- Progress on Profitability
MT2- Business Ethics	
MT8- Climate Action	
MT3- Data Security & Privacy	
MT9- Financial Inclusion
MT4- Digital Innovation	
MT10- Operational Eco-efficiency
MT5- Customer Relations	
MT11- Sustainable Finance
MT6- Employment Practices	
Governance  
& Ethics
Page 94
54% of Directors on the Board are Independent Directors
15%* of Directors on the Board are Women (lower than FY 2023-24)
ESG and climate-related KPIs linked to goal sheets of MD&CEO and 
relevant top management
73: Highest S&P Global ESG score among Indian Banks for three consecutive years, only 
Indian Bank to be included in S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook 2025
10 instances of non-compliance with regulations concerning product and service 
information and labelling, resulting in a penalty/ fine totalling ` 9,185,000
Zero# Directors, KMPs and employees against whom disciplinary action was taken by 
any law enforcement agency on charges of bribery or corruption
85%# of Directors covered through trainings on anti-bribery and anti-corruption, anti-
money laundering, cyber security and climate risk, among others
Environment
and
Climate 
Action
Page 108
1,186 facilities covered under the Bank’s ISO 14001:2015 certified EMS (12th year)
~26% reduction in combined S1 and S2 emission intensity per rupee of turnover (Y-O-Y)
33,994 tCO2e Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in FY 2024-25 (down from 40,893 
tCO2e in FY 2023-24)
33% increase in Scope 1 emissions (Y-O-Y)
20.21% share of renewables in the Bank’s electricity mix (up from 12.31% in FY 2023-24)
~7,446 tCO2e in avoided emissions from the use of renewable energy at Bank’s facilities
39% reduction in financed emission intensity of electricity generation portfolio (from 
base year FY 2021-22)
` 7,357 crore in sanctioned debt facilities for supporting RE projects (solar, wind, hybrid 
& pumped-storage) of ~2,210 MW
728 ktCO2e annual attributable emissions avoided through Bank's RE financing
~2 lakh trees planted under YES Foundation’s agroforestry project in FY 2024-25
Rated highest among Indian Banks by CDP for 2024 Climate Change disclosures, with a 
rating of ‘A-’ (Leadership Band)
YES BANK’s 3 offices along with 50 of 78 Mumbai Branches powered by renewables
People  
and Society
Page 124
Recognised amongst India’s Best Workplaces™ in Banks 2025 by the Great Place to 
Work® Institute
Women participation in workforce at 23.17% (up from 21.8% in FY 2023-24)
6.72 average training days per employee (lower than FY 2023-24)
28,376 employees trained on key risks and compliances, and skills upgradation
Employee attrition reduced to 35.5% (from 38.2% in previous year)
74: Net Promoter Score for FY 2024-25 (higher than last year’s NPS of 70)
` 1,383 crore disbursed to 3.03 lakh women through YES Microfinance in FY 2024-25 
(lower than FY 2023-24)
Over 121,800 accounts opened under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY)
16,000 women benefited from Bank’s Financial Literacy Drives conducted across India
Nil data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers
` 7,398 crore: Khushi (Affordable) Home loan portfolio (as at March 31, 2025)
` 43,651 crore SME advances (as at March 31, 2025)
68,000 youth, farmers, women and artisans impacted through YES Foundation’s 
employability and entrepreneurship programmes since the launch of the initiative
#1 UPI Payee Payment Service Provider (PSP) with 56.9% market share
#1 Acquiring AePS Bank with 39.21% market share
95% eligible CA accounts sourced digitally and 97% Credit Cards sourced digitally
62% eligible CA accounts activated under best-in-class median TAT of 4 hours
Progress on
Profitability
Page 162
Highest full-year net profit since reconstruction, of ` 2,406 crore (up 92.3% Y-O-Y)
Net Interest Income up by 10.5% (Y-O-Y) and Non-Interest Income up by 14.5% (Y-O-Y)
1.6% GNPA ratio and 0.3% NNPA ratio (down from 1.7% and 0.6% respectively)
Implemented ‘Agency Bank’ mandate of the Government & RBI to enable tax collection
NIL shortfall in PSL Compliance in FY 2024-25
Raising Deposits across segments
	y Retail & Branch Banking led Deposits: 
` 166,904 crore
	y Other Deposits: ` 117,621 crore 
	y CASA Deposits: ` 97,480 crore
Lending Funds across segments
	y Corporate Advances: ` 59,073 crore
	y Mid Corporate Advances: ` 41,905 crore
	y Retail Advances: ` 101,560 crore
	y SME Advances: ` 43,651 crore
	y Rural Advances*: ` 7,758 crore 
*(included in Retail Advances above)
Revenue through Interest Income 
and Fees
	y Net Interest Income: ` 8,944 crore
	y Fee Income (Total Non-Interest 
Income): ` 5,857 crore
Trade and Cash Management 
Services
	y Fee Income of ` 1,051 crore from  
Corporate Trade & Cash Management  
in FY 2024-25
	y Income of ` 677 crore from Forex, Debt 
Capital Markets & Securities in FY 2024-25 
	y Services include: Balance Sheet 
management, Para-banking and other 
services and Financial Market activities on 
behalf of Clients/Proprietary trading etc.
Key Outputs from Business Activities
Governance 
and Ethics
Material Topics Covered
M-1
Governance and Compliance
M-2
Business Ethics
Capitals Impacted
Financial Capital
C-1
Human Capital
C-2
Natural Capital
C-3
Social & Relationship Capital
C-5
94
YES BANK LIMITED
Over the years, as the Bank has transformed into a well-capitalised, profitable and future-ready 
enterprise, it has continued to strengthen the foundations of its governance frameworks, foster 
a strong culture of compliance, and reaffirm its commitment to ethical excellence. Led by an 
eminent and diversified Board, and managed by a seasoned and professional leadership team, 
the Bank has implemented decisive measures to enhance risk governance, regulatory compliance 
and transparency by setting a strong tone from top, demonstrating a zero-tolerance approach 
to non-compliance and creating an organisational ethos that is predicated on the principles 
of integrity and accountability. As YES BANK emerges from its journey of transformation and 
redoubles its focus on unlocking shareholder value, it remains unwavering in its commitment to 
adhering to the highest standards of governance in its business and in all aspects of its long-term 
value creation process.
	y
Experienced Board committed to highest 
standards of corporate governance and 
accountability 
	y
Stable and professional management with 
extensive sectoral expertise
Board and Management
	y
Strict adherence to the Bank’s Code of 
Conduct, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption; 
and Anti-Money Laundering policies, including 
mandatory trainings and recertifications 
for all employees
	y
Board-approved Tax Strategy integrating best 
practices in responsible tax management
	y
UNGC aligned ESG Code of Conduct for 
suppliers, part of agreements and contracts
Responsible Business Conduct
	y
Board and Executive-level Committees 
charged with overseeing ESG Agenda and 
climate alignment
	y
ESG KPIs for key executive management
ESG & Climate Governance 
	y
Risk and Compliance Culture Policy with 
oversight from Board-level Committees
	y
Mandatory compliance-related trainings and 
recertifications for all employees
	y
Chief Compliance Officer reporting directly to 
the Audit Committee of the Board
Compliance-first Approach
Key Priority Areas and Actions
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
95
Board and Management
Ethical Business Conduct
54%
Share of Independent 
Directors on the Bank’s Board
100%
Employees provided training 
on Bank’s Code of Conduct/ 
Anti-Bribery and Anti-
Corruption and Anti-money 
Laundering policies
Zero
Number of Directors/KMPs/ 
employees against whom 
disciplinary action was taken 
by any law enforcement 
agency for the charges of 
bribery/corruption
96.85%*
Average Board meeting 
attendance during the year 
85%*
Directors covered through 
trainings on anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption, anti-money 
laundering, cyber security, 
climate risk
~9 years
Average vintage of Top and 
Senior Management Team
Zero
Number of complaints 
received in relation to issues 
of Conflict of Interest of 
Directors/KMPs 
Value chain
Zero
Incidents/violations related 
to corruption that led to 
terminations/non-renewal 
of contracts with suppliers 
during the year
22.38%#
Share of value chain 
partners covered under ESG 
awareness programmes in  
FY 2024-25
#Based on purchases by value
ESG Disclosures
73
YES BANK’s S&P Global ESG 
score (Highest amongst 
Indian Banks for three 
consecutive years)
‘A-’
YES BANK’s CDP rating 
(Highest amongst Indian 
Banks for three consecutive 
years)
Key Highlights for FY 2024-25
*As at March 31, 2025
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
96
YES BANK LIMITED
Highest governance body
1
The Bank’s Board of Directors represents its highest governance body and is responsible for setting the tone and 
tenor for organisational excellence in corporate governance and ethical business conduct. Made up of eminent 
professionals from diverse fields and experiences, the Board guides and oversees the Bank’s strategic alignment 
with its long-term mission and vision of building a high-quality, customer-centric, service-driven enterprise, 
focussed on delivering sustainable and profitable growth. 
Board Committees1
To help discharge the Board’s duties in an efficient manner, 
the Board of Directors has constituted 11 Board Committees, 
each with their own area of oversight, and guided by separate 
Terms of Reference, which provide for the Committee’s scope, 
powers, duties and responsibilities. Board-level Committees 
play a key role in governance by focussing on specific domain 
areas and making informed decisions within their delegated 
authority. All decisions, observations and recommendations 
of Board Committees are placed before the Board for its 
subsequent information or approval, as maybe required.
Board composition
The Bank’s Board comprises thirteen Directors, led by a 
Part-time Chairman who is also an Independent Director
Two* of the Directors on the Board are women1
More than one-half (54%) of the Board is independent 
(including 2 women Directors) 
Changes in Board composition in FY 2024-25
	y
In FY 2024-25, the Board’s composition underwent  
two changes
	y
Mr. Sunil Kaul, previously, Non-Executive Director 
(Nominee of CA Basque Investments), ceased to be a 
Director with effect from October 11, 2024
	y
Mr. Manish Jain, previously, Country Head, Wholesale 
Banking, at YES BANK, was appointed as Executive 
Director with effect from December 11, 2024, 
pursuant to RBI approval for a period of three years 
Number of Independent Directors
Number of Non-Independent Directors
54%
46%
Male
Female
Independent Director(s)
5
2
2
1
1
2
Non-Executive Director
Managing Director & CEO
Executive Director(s)
Director(s) Nominated by 
State Bank of India
Male
Female
11
2
11
2
Number of Board Members
Age (Above 50 years)
Age (30 years to 50 years)
*As at March 31, 2025, the Bank’s Board comprised thirteen Directors out of which three were women, seven Directors were Independent (out 
of which two were women), and one woman Director was below the age of 50, while other Directors, including men and women were above the 
age of 50 years. 
Ms. Shweta Jalan (Nominee Director of Verventa Holdings Limited), ceased to be a Director upon noting of her resignation by the Board at its 
Meeting held on June 27, 2025. Mr. Shivakumar Dega was appointed on the Board of the Bank as an Additional Director (Non-Executive Director, 
Nominee of Verventa Holdings Limited), effective upon his appointment approved by the Board at its Meeting held on June 27, 2025, after noting 
resignation of Ms. Shweta Jalan. Mr. Shivakumar’s appointment is subject to the approval of the shareholders of the Bank. As at July 19, 2025, the 
Bank’s Board comprises thirteen Directors out of which two are women, seven Directors are Independent (out of which two are women), and all 
Directors, including men and women are above the age of 50 years.
1 GRI 2-9, GRI 405-1
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
97
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(ED: Executive Director)
(NE-ID: Non-executive 
Independent Director)
(NE-N-ID: Non-executive Non-
Independent Director)
CAPACITY
Committees (  Chairman;  Members) (as at July 19, 2025)
AUDIT 
NOMIINATION & 
REMUNERATION
STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONSSHIP
CUSTOMER SERVICE
RISK MANGEMENT
CSR & ESG
BOARD CREDIT
IT STRATEGY
REVIEW COMMITTEE FOR 
CLASSIFICATION AND 
DECLARATION OF WILFUL 
DEFAULTERS 
SPECIAL COMMITTEE OF THE 
BOARD FOR MONITORING AND 
FOLLOW-UP OF FRAUDS 
CAPITAL RAISING
FRAUD, WILLFUL DEFAULTERS 
AND NON-COOPERATIVE 
BORROWERS MONITORING 
COMMITTEE 
Mr. Prashant Kumar
ED (MD&CEO)
Refer  
'Additional  
note'  
below
Dr. Rajan Pental
ED
Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi^ NE- ID (Ch.)
Mr. Atul Malik
NE-ID
Ms. Rekha Murthy
NE-ID
Mr. Sharad Sharma
NE-ID
Mr. Sandeep Tewari
NE N-ID (Nominee of 
State Bank of India)
Mr. Thekepat Keshav kumar
NE N-ID (Nominee of 
State Bank of India)
Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao
NE-ID
Ms. Nandita Gurjar
NE-ID
Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani
NE-ID
Ms. Shweta Jalan*
NE N-ID (Nominee 
of Verventa Holdings 
Limited)
Mr. Manish Jain#
ED
Mr. Sunil Kaul$
NE N-ID
(Nominee of CA 
Basque Investments)
Mr. Shivakumar Dega¥
NE N-ID (Nominee 
of Verventa Holdings 
Limited)
PROPORTION OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
80%
67%
40%
40%
80%
50%
50%
60%
50%
25%
33%
GENDER DIVERSITY 
20%
33%
20%
20%
0%
33%
0%
20%
0%
0%
0%
MEETINGS HELD IN FY 2024-25
19
6
2
2
6
2
26
5
1
3
0
1
IMPACTS REVIEWED
 
 
 
 
-
	 Chairperson of the Committee 
	 Member of the Committee 
^	 Non-Executive Part-time Chairperson, Independent Director 
*	
Ms. Shweta Jalan ceased to be a Director upon noting of her resignation by the Board at its Meeting held on  June 27, 2025.
$	
Mr. Sunil Kaul ceased to be a Director w.e.f. October 11, 2024.
#	
Mr. Manish Jain was appointed as Executive Director w.e.f. December 11, 2024, pursuant to RBI approval for a period of three years.
¥	
Mr. Shivakumar Dega was appointed on the Board of the Bank as an Additional Director (Non-Executive Director, Nominee of Verventa 
Holdings Limited) effective upon his appointment approved by the Board at its Meeting held on June 27, 2025, after noting resignation of 
Ms. Shweta Jalan. Mr. Shivakumar’s appointment is subject to the approval of the shareholders of the Bank.
Additional note
	y
In FY 2024-25, the Bank’s “Fraud, Wilful Defaulters and Non-Cooperative Borrowers Monitoring Committee” (‘FWDNCBMC’) on September 
10, 2024, was segregated into two Committees, namely, the “Review Committee for Classification and Declaration of Wilful Defaulters 
and Large Defaulters” and the “Special Committee of the Board for Monitoring and Follow-Up of Frauds”. This was done in compliance 
with the requirements of the RBI Master Directions on ‘Fraud Risk Management in Commercial Banks (including Regional Rural Banks) and 
All India Financial Institutions’ (dated July 15, 2024), and ‘Treatment of Wilful Defaulters and Large Defaulters’ (dated July 30, 2024). The 
Composition of FWDNCBMC as on the date of segregation was as follows: Mr. Prashant Kumar (Chairman), Mr. Sharad Sharma (Member), 
Mr. Sandeep Tewari (Member), Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani (Member) and Ms. Shweta Jalan (Member). The proportion of Independent 
Directors and Gender Diversity of the Committee was 40% and 20%, respectively
	y
Additionally, with effect from April 19, 2025 the nomenclature of the “Review Committee for Classification and Declaration of Wilful 
Defaulters and Large Defaulters” has been changed to “Review Committee for Classification and Declaration of Wilful Defaulters” 
ECONOMIC
ENVIRONMENT
PEOPLE
98
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Board accountability
Transparency, integrity and accountability are core tenets 
of the Bank’s corporate governance framework, with the 
Board demonstrating its steadfast commitment to these 
principles as it discharges its fiduciary duties. The Board 
remains firmly cognisant of its responsibilities to uphold the 
rights and interests of all the Bank’s stakeholders and build 
an enterprise that not only complies with statutory and 
regulatory norms but also delivers sustainable growth, whilst 
accounting for the organisation’s impacts on the economy, 
environment, and people. 
Conflict of interest1
	y
The Board has adopted a ‘Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics for the Board of Directors and Senior Management’
	y
The Code comprises ethical norms pertaining to avoidance 
and disclosures of conflicts of interest, amongst other fair 
business practices
	y
For FY 2024-25, the Bank’s Board of Directors and 
Senior Management have affirmed compliance with the 
Code and a declaration signed by the MD & CEO can be 
referred to on page 289
Criteria for selection of Directors1
	y
The Bank has a Board-approved ‘Policy on Board 
Diversity and Fit & Proper Criteria and Succession 
Planning’ outlining its approach on diversity of Board 
composition, succession planning and the process for 
appointment of Directors
	y
The Board-level Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
(N&RC), annually reviews the qualification, knowledge, skill 
sets and experience of Directors, in relation to the Bank’s 
business requirements and regulatory norms, and makes 
recommendations to the Board on the appointment, 
re-appointment and induction of new Directors
	y
The appointment of the Chairman and Executive Directors 
are carried out after receiving approvals from the RBI, 
which is also placed before the Bank's shareholders.
	y
In line with Companies Act 2013, shareholder approval 
is required for altering the Bank’s Memorandum and 
Articles of Association
	y
In line with Companies Act 2013, a Director can be 
held personally responsible, without any limitation of 
liability, as may be prescribed by the law
	y
Board performance reviews are in place (page 209)
Board Remuneration1
	y
The N&RC oversees and recommends to the Board, 
policies pertaining to the remuneration of Directors, 
Key Managerial Personnel and other employees
	y
The remuneration of Directors is determined 
basis the Bank’s 'Remuneration Policy', developed 
in line with the Bank’s business requirements, 
statutory and regulatory norms, and periodically 
reviewed by the N&RC
	y
The 
N&RC 
recommends 
to 
the 
Board, 
the 
remuneration for the Chairperson, Non-Executive 
Directors (NEDs), and Executive Directors (EDs)
	y
NEDs are paid sitting fees within permissible limits 
prescribed under Indian statutory and regulatory 
guidelines. The N&RC recommends to the Board, 
changes in sitting fees based on performance 
parameters of the Bank, industry benchmarking, 
amongst other criteria
	y
NEDs may also receive a fixed remuneration in 
accordance with RBI’s circulars on ‘Corporate 
Governance in Banks - Appointment of Directors 
and Constitution of Committees of the Board’ (dated 
April 26, 2021) and ‘Review of Fixed Remuneration 
granted to Non-Executive Directors (NEDs) (dated 
February 9, 2024) 
	y
The Bank also has a separate ‘Total Rewards Policy’ in 
line with RBI guidelines, which, inter alia, governs the 
compensation and benefits of the Managing Director 
& CEO and Whole-time Directors (Executive Directors), 
including, their fixed pay, variable pay, performance 
bonus & stock-linked incentives, terms and conditions 
of termination (including payments), malus/clawback 
clauses as per the Bank’s policy, and retirals 
	y
The remuneration payable to the Chairperson and 
EDs is subject to the prior approval of RBI and final 
approval of shareholders
	y
Remuneration is benchmarked for every role 
against market data provided by Bank’s appointed 
remuneration consultant. A reputed and credible 
third party organisation has been onboarded as 
remuneration consultant
	y
In FY 2024-25, proposals related to change in 
remuneration of Directors were placed before the 
Board. The remuneration for MD & CEO and executive 
directors were approved during FY 2024-25, details 
of which are available on Page 224 of this Integrated 
Annual Report for FY 2024-25
1 GRI 2-10, GRI 2-15, GRI 2-19
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
99
Board discussions and trainings1
The Bank’s Board of Directors comprises domain specialists 
with extensive strategic, operational and leadership 
experience. The Board uses its diverse and well-rounded 
industry experience to steer the Bank towards pathways 
of sustainable and profitable growth. The Board meets 
regularly to discuss important matters that require its 
review or approval. The Bank has an effective post-meeting, 
follow-up procedure and mechanism, including an Action 
Tracker System, to track important decisions taken at the 
Board or Board Committee meetings and to track closures 
of such decisions. An Action Taken Report on decisions 
taken in meetings are placed at the succeeding meeting(s) 
of the Board or respective Board Committee. In FY 2024-25, 
the Board held discussions around a number of critical 
areas including capital raising, ESG and climate strategy, 
appointment and remuneration of the senior management, 
operations, risk management and business, financial 
reports and their integrity, new initiatives in business, 
amongst many others. 
The Bank has also instituted an annualised training calendar 
for its Board of Directors and senior management to ensure 
access to specialised trainings on emerging topics such as 
climate action, and refresher trainings on key compliance and 
product related areas. In FY 2024-25, the Bank facilitated 
training programmes for the Board around crucial areas 
of Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption, Climate Risk & 
Sustainability; IT & Cyber Security; Know Your Customer 
(KYC) and Anti Money Laundering (AML); Operational Risk 
Management; and Social Media landscape, amongst others. 
Board evaluation1
In FY 2024-25 the Board carried out a performance 
evaluation of the Directors, including the Chairman, MD 
& CEO, EDs, Board Level Committees and the Board as a 
whole for FY 2024-25
The Board Performance Evaluation exercise was conducted 
internally and covered various aspects including the 
Board’s oversight of the management of the organisation’s 
impacts on the economy, environment, and people
The feedback from the performance evaluation was shared 
with respective Directors, the Board and Board-Level 
Committees for further action
The Board also identified specific action areas such 
as business strategy and growth, cost controls, risk 
management and talent management, for driving 
sustainable improvement in governance practices
For more information, refer page 209 of this Integrated Annual 
Report for FY 2024-25
Professional management
The Bank is managed by a team of seasoned professionals 
that represent extensive sectoral expertise and domain 
knowledge. Members of the top and senior management 
team have spent an average of nine years as part of the YES 
BANK journey, adding strength and stability to the Bank’s 
transformation. Reaffirming its commitment to accountability, 
the Bank ensures that the compensation of its executive 
management are aligned to the short, medium and long-term 
objectives and targets of the Bank. The Bank has also 
dovetailed domain-specific ESG KPIs related to its economic, 
environmental, and people-related performance into the 
goal sheets of relevant executive management, cascading its 
thrust on sustainable outcomes, across the organisation.
CEO-to-Employee Pay Ratio
	y
The remuneration for the Bank’s MD & CEO is in 
line with the guidelines stated in the RBI circular on 
‘Guidelines on Compensation of Whole Time Directors/ 
Chief Executive Officers/Material Risk Takers and 
Control Function staff’ (dated November 4, 2019)
	y
The Bank has a process of defining measurable Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs) for the MD & CEO under 
financial & non-financial parameters
	y
Financial KPIs include metrics such as profitability, 
asset quality, deposit growth, and relative financial 
metrics including total shareholder’s return. While 
non-financial KPIs include metrics on governance 
and compliance, ESG and climate change, human 
resources among others
	y
The 
MD 
& 
CEO’s 
variable 
pay 
consists 
of 
performance bonus and stock-linked Incentive and 
is governed by regulatory guidelines which includes 
deferral arrangement
	y
While part of performance bonus is deferred over 
subsequent three performance periods, the stock-
linked incentive vests over 42 months from the grant 
date. The entire variable pay is subject to Malus/
Clawback clauses as per the Bank’s policy
	y
The ratio of the remuneration of the MD & CEO to 
the median remuneration of the employees for the 
financial year is 81.8x*. The ratio of the percentage 
increase in the annual total compensation of the MD & 
CEO to the median percentage increase in annual total 
compensation for all employees stood at 2.2631
*Remuneration includes fixed pay, perquisite value, performance 
bonus paid and value of stock options granted during the year 
(this ratio is calculated in accordance to the requirement of GRI 
2: General Disclosures Standard 2021 - Disclosure 2-21, and is 
different from the ratio mentioned in Annexure I to the Directors’ 
Report on page 216
1 GRI 2-12, GRI 2-18, GRI 2-21
100
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Board
The Bank’s Board of Directors guides its overall ESG agenda 
and is periodically apprised of the Bank’s sustainability 
approach, targets, and key initiatives.
Board-level Committees 
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Social & 
Governance Committee (CSR & ESG Committee of the Board): 
The CSR & ESG Committee is the highest governance body 
that drives the Bank's sustainable development agenda, 
oversees the decisions of the Bank’s Sustainability Council 
and makes recommendations to the Board on the Bank’s 
overall ESG strategy and performance. The Committee also 
oversees and reviews the Bank’s governance frameworks 
and practices to monitor, assess and mitigate climate risks 
and guides the Bank’s efforts to align its business towards 
low-carbon transition. The Committee reviews and approves 
the Bank’s material topics, key non-financial disclosures, 
oversees the Bank’s climate strategy and initiatives on a 
bi-annual basis.
Risk Management Committee (RMC): 
The RMC covers the entire gamut of risk management for the 
organisation as a whole. This includes promoting a prudent 
risk culture in the Bank, assessing the risk universe and 
monitoring risk profile of the Bank, including sustainability 
and ESG-related risks (as outlined in the ICAAP).
Executive-level Committees 
Sustainability Council: 
The Sustainability Council, chaired by the MD & CEO, is 
responsible for developing and reviewing the Bank’s ESG and 
climate strategy. This includes overseeing the implementation 
of the Bank’s sustainability agenda, setting targets, and 
monitoring the ESG performance. The Sustainability Council 
meets twice a year to review climate risks and opportunities 
and provide guidance on the Bank’s decarbonisation strategy, 
including reducing carbon intensity of its portfolio.
Enterprise Risk Management Committee:
As an Executive committee, ERMC is responsible for 
overseeing and ensuring that all material risks are identified, 
measured, monitored and controlled in accordance 
with the Bank’s risk appetite, as well as within the 
regulatory guidelines.
ERMC also oversees the Bank’s preparedness for mapping 
and managing the non-financial risks of its operations, 
keeping in focus their impact on the Bank’s reputation and 
goodwill. In the identification and assessment of material 
risks during the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process, climate risk has been recognised as one of the key 
material risks under Pillar II. Additionally, the Bank also has 
KPI for Climate Risk as a part of its risk appetite statement, 
in line with the framework stipulated by the Bank’s 
Sustainability Council.
Operational Risk Management Committee (ORMC):
The Bank has implemented a comprehensive framework for 
the management of Operational Risk, including Outsourcing 
Risk and Business Continuity Planning, commensurate 
with its size, nature of business activities and complexity 
of its operations. The framework includes a proactive 
forward-looking approach, and adoption of industry best 
practices to enable operational resilience and minimal 
Operational Risk events and losses. The Operational Risk 
Management Committee (ORMC), chaired by the Chief 
Risk Officer and consists of members of the top and senior 
management, is responsible for review and implementation 
of the frameworks to identify, measure, evaluate, monitor, 
report, and control or mitigate risks pertaining to Operational 
Risk Management, Outsourcing and Business Continuity. 
The Committee is also responsible to review and understand 
future changes, threats and concur on areas of high priority 
with related risk mitigation strategy. Operational Risk includes 
risks emanating due to service disruption and/or direct 
physical impacts of climate change which may range from 
acute risks (such as extreme weather events) to chronic risks 
(like gradual rise in sea level and temperature). In order to 
tackle such a situation, the Bank has in place a comprehensive 
Business Continuity Plan, which is a proactive planning 
ESG and Climate Governance
1
YES BANK has set up a robust governance structure for strategically integrating Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) and climate considerations into its business. The Bank’s Chief Financial Officer heads the 
Sustainable Finance unit as the highest ranking executive responsible for the Bank’s sustainability strategy, 
reporting directly to the MD & CEO. The Bank has also constituted a Board-level Corporate Social Responsibility 
and Environmental, Social & Governance (CSR & ESG) Committee which along with the executive-level 
Sustainability Council, oversees the Bank’s overall sustainable development agenda.
1 GRI 2-9, GRI 2-13
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
101
process that ensures critical services or products are 
delivered during a disruption. The plan is ISO 22301 certified, 
a recognised International Standard for Business Continuity 
to effectively address these possible service disruptions.
Business Units
Sustainable Finance (SF) Unit:
The Bank has set up a dedicated Sustainable Finance (SF) 
unit that houses employees with specialised knowledge 
and experience in sustainability. The CFO is the highest 
management-level executive entrusted as the custodian 
of implementation of the Bank’s ESG Strategy and reports 
directly into the MD & CEO. The SF unit co-develops and 
implements the Bank’s ESG strategy and works with 
sustainability SPOCs from business units and control functions 
across the Bank to integrate ESG and climate considerations 
into business, measure and manage the Bank’s impacts and 
report the Bank’s non-financial performance.
Risk Management Unit:
The Bank has instituted a robust risk management framework 
which is implemented by its risk management function 
reporting into the Chief Risk Officer. The responsibility of 
overall risk management lies with the Board of Directors and 
four Board-level committees. Together with the management, 
they ideate, implement and review policies, frameworks, and 
systems for effectively managing the Bank’s existing and 
emerging risks, including climate risks.
The Bank’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Unit is 
responsible for the implementation of the ERM framework, 
risk aggregation, stress testing and risk-based pricing. 
The ERM unit is responsible for formulation of the Bank’s 
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP), 
risk assessment of Pillar II risks, such as Reputation Risk, 
Compliance Risk, Concentration Risk, and Climate Risk, among 
others, as well as formulation of the Bank’s Risk Appetite 
Statement and tracking periodic performance against various 
KPIs outlined in the Risk Appetite statement.
Environmental and Social (E&S) Risk Team:
A dedicated E&S Risk team, which is a part of the Credit Risk 
Management Unit of the Bank, undertakes environmental and 
social assessment (preliminary and detailed due-diligence) 
of loans funded by the Bank in line with the Bank’s 
Environment & Social Policy (ESP). The ESP helps to ensure 
that all activities are environmentally and socially prudent 
and compliant with the regulatory, environmental, and social 
standards, as applicable or likely to be in force in the future. 
Climate-related indicators have been recently added for data 
collection and qualitative climate assessment/categorisation 
for project loans and project-related corporate loans above 
the sanctioned amount of USD 5 million.
Other business units:
There are various other specialised units across the Bank 
such as Infrastructure Management Team; Human Capital 
Management; Operations & Service Delivery; Business and 
Digital Technology Solutions Group; Retail Banking and Branch 
Banking, amongst others, that work closely with the SF team 
to integrate sustainability principles into their business 
processes with an aim to benchmark the Bank’s performance 
with global best practices in ESG and climate action.
In 2025, YES BANK 
was included as a 
constituent in the 
FTSE4Good Index 
Series for the third 
consecutive year. 
The Bank also 
continues to feature 
in the MSCI ACWI 
Low Carbon Leaders 
Index and ACWI 
Climate Change 
Index, among others
For the third year in a row, YES BANK 
scored ‘A-’ Leadership Band by CDP for 
its 2024 Climate Change disclosures, 
retaining its position as the highest scored 
Indian Bank for climate disclosures. 
CDP annually provides scores to global 
organisations across sectors, based 
on their climate-related performance. 
YES BANK earned the ‘Leadership Band’ 
(A/ A-) in 11 out of 17 climate-related 
disclosure categories, including, areas 
such as climate governance, emissions 
reporting (Scope 1, and 2), emission 
reduction initiatives, and portfolio impact
Benchmark ESG and climate disclosures
YES BANK continues to disclose its ESG performance in line with national and international benchmark disclosure frameworks such as the 
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) and BRSR Core Disclosure Framework; Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, 
Integrated Reporting (IR) Framework and the recommendations of the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The Bank 
has consequently earned a leadership position in prestigious global ESG ratings.
In FY 2024-25, for the third year in a row, YES BANK achieved 
the highest S&P Global ESG score amongst Indian banks 
based on the S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment 
(CSA) 2024 and is the only Indian Bank to be included in S&P 
Global Sustainability Yearbook 2025. The Bank’s S&P Global 
ESG score stood at 73 (out of 100) and S&P Global CSA Score 
stood at 72 (out of 100) as at November 7, 2024. The S&P 
Global CSA is considered one of the most comprehensive 
and granular assessments of an organisation’s ESG 
performance, taking into account up to 1,000 data points on 
an organisation’s performance across topics such as Climate 
Strategy, Operational Eco-Efficiency, Financial Inclusion, 
Human Capital Development, Human Rights, Corporate 
Governance, Risk Management, amongst others
102
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Compliance-first culture
Over the years, the Bank has reinforced its compliance-related 
controls and oversights and strengthened its internal systems 
and processes with an aim of building a compliance-first 
enterprise. The Bank espouses an organisational culture 
that places the highest priority in conducting its business 
activities in complete compliance with statutory and 
regulatory norms and requirements. The Bank has instituted 
a robust Risk and Compliance Culture Policy with oversight 
at the highest levels from the Risk Management and Audit 
Committees of the Board. Setting a strong tone from the 
top, the Bank’s leadership continues to communicate and 
demonstrate its zero-tolerance approach to non-compliance, 
and enhance accountability through rigorous trainings, 
incentives and rewards. 
Dedicated Compliance Unit
	y
The Bank’s Compliance Unit is charged with ensuring 
that the Bank’s business activities and operations 
comply with all regulatory requirements
	y
Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to the Audit 
Committee of the Board
	y
Compliance Risk is monitored as a standalone 
risk, reviewed by the Bank’s Enterprise Risk 
Management Committee
	y
The Compliance Unit identifies effective procedures, 
corresponding controls to support the Bank’s business 
divisions, conducts reviews of new products and 
processes from a regulatory compliance lens, delivers 
training to employees on compliance 
Mandatory compliance-related trainings 
All new employees undergo a mandatory induction 
programme including trainings on the Bank’s Code of 
Conduct; Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy; Know 
Your Customer (KYC) and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) 
policy; Operational Risk Management; Awareness on 
Information Security; Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
at Workplace (POSH); amongst various other topics. 
Eemployees are also required to undertake recertifications 
of these topics on a periodic basis
The Compliance Unit also conducts annual refresher 
trainings on regulatory requirements pertaining 
to KYC/AML; Credit; Trade/FEMA; and Liability, 
amongst other topics
Incidents of non-compliance1
	y
Zero 
incidents 
of 
non-compliance 
concerning 
marketing communications
	y
During FY 2024-25, the Bank had 10 instances of 
non-compliance with regulations concerning product 
and service information and labelling, resulting in a 
penalty/ fine totalling ` 9,185,000*
(*Penalties levied related to non-compliances with certain 
directions issued by RBI on 'Customer Service in Banks', ‘Un-
authorised Operation of internal/Office Accounts’ and ‘Issuance 
of soiled notes to general public and non-provision of facility for 
exchange of soiled/ mutilated bank notes by branches’. The Bank 
has taken necessary corrective actions including, discontinuation 
of auto recoveries in respect of non-maintenance of minimum 
balance; discontinuation of internal accounts; and advisories/ 
trainings for branches on regulatory requirements pertaining 
to exchange of soiled/ mutilated bank, availability of coins and 
related penalty structure)
Ethical business conduct 
Cognizant of its responsibility of being a public trust institution, YES BANK aims to carry out its business 
activities with the highest sense of integrity and an uncompromising commitment to moral and ethical values. 
As they discharge their duties and serve the Bank’s spectrum of stakeholders, YES BANKers not only uphold 
ethical principles such as fairness, transparency and accountability in all their business dealings, but also help 
promote ethical behaviour throughout the Bank’s larger value chain.
1 GRI 417-2, GRI 417-3
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
103
Code of Conduct 
The Bank has adopted a Bank-wide Employee Code of 
Conduct which outlines ethical guidelines, within which all 
YES BANKers are expected to operate in their dealings with 
other employees and all other stakeholders. The Bank’s Code 
has been formulated in line with regulatory requirements 
and industry best practices and covers various aspects of 
the Bank’s business. The Code of Conduct is applicable to all 
executives of YES BANK and covers best practices pertaining 
to, avoiding conflict of interest; avoiding bribery or illegal 
gratification; avoiding bias towards any caste, creed, race, 
religion, ethnicity and gender; avoiding harassment including 
sexual harassment; norms for anti-money laundering, 
amongst various other aspects for fair and responsible 
dealings with the Bank’s stakeholders.
Key aspects of the Bank’s Code 
	y
The Code is reviewed by the Board-Level Committees 
on a periodic basis
	y
Amendments to the Code are informed to all executives 
by the Human Capital Management (HCM) unit
	y
Familiarisation with the Bank’s Code is part of the 
mandatory induction training for all new employees
	y
The HCM unit also conducts mandatory certification 
training for all employees on the Bank’s Code
	y
All employees provide an annual declaration through 
the Bank’s internal IT system, affirming their 
understanding and adherence to the Code
	y
The Bank has also implemented a vigil mechanism, 
through its Whistle Blower Policy, which provides 
for a Corporate Whistle Blower Initiative (CWI Portal) 
through which employees and other stakeholders 
can report any violations of the Bank’s Code by 
its employees. The Audit Committee of the Board 
oversees the Bank’s vigil mechanism and the Bank has 
zero tolerance for retaliation against whistleblowers
	y
Employees who violate the Code of Conduct 
may be subject to disciplinary action, including 
possible dismissal
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption
YES BANK follows a zero-tolerance approach towards bribery 
and corruption. The Bank has instituted a Board-approved 
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy (ABAC Policy), which 
reflects the Bank’s and its management’s commitment to 
maintaining the highest ethical standards, while conducting 
its business in an open, fair and accountable manner, in line 
with best practices in corporate governance. The ABAC Policy 
has been developed in alignment with the Bank’s Code of 
Conduct, various policies, rules, and regulations adopted 
by the Bank in conformance with the legal and statutory 
framework of anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation 
prevalent in India. The ABAC Policy applies to the Bank, all 
its employees (fulltime or contractual employees, including 
trainees and interns), directors, agents, associates, vendors, 
consultants, advisors, representatives, intermediaries, all 
stakeholders, or any person associated with the Bank and 
who may be acting on behalf of the Bank. The objective of the 
Policy is to ensure neither of the parties covered, indulge in 
any acts of bribery and corruption in discharging their official 
duties towards the Bank, either in their own name or in the 
name of the Bank.
Key aspects of the Bank’s ABAC Policy 
	y
All employees of the Bank are provided a mandatory 
training on the Bank’s ABAC policy as part of the 
induction training1
	y
100% of the Bank’s operations have been assessed 
for risks related to corruption. The Bank assesses risk 
of fraud, customer complaints, risk of unauthorised 
access to systems, amongst a number of risks 
related to corruption1
	y
During the reporting period, one confirmed incident 
of corruption has been identified by the Bank in which 
staff-side action was initiated against one employee1
1 GRI 205-1, GRI 205-2, GRI 205-3
104
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Anti-money Laundering
Money-laundering poses a severe risk to the stability of 
the global economic system. As a responsible financial 
institution, the Bank ensures that its business activities stay 
protected and resistant from any form of money-laundering. 
The Bank has instituted a Board-approved, Know Your 
Customer and Anti-Money Laundering (KYC & AML) Policy, 
which provides a broad framework for adherence to national 
and local regulatory requirements related to knowing your 
customer, anti-money laundering practices and directives 
for combating the financing of terrorism. The Audit Committee 
of the Board has oversight of the implementation of the 
Bank’s KYC & AML Policy. The KYC Policy and AML Policy and 
procedural requirements are subjected to an independent 
review by the Audit function and also forms a part of periodic 
reporting to the top management of the Bank. All employees 
of the Bank are provided a mandatory training on the Bank’s 
KYC & AML Policy as part of the induction training along with 
annual mandatory re-certification trainings. Further, annual 
assessment of the Bank’s AML/KYC monitoring procedures 
and processes is conducted by an independent third party. 
YES BANK’s Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Unit also achieved 
the ISO 9001 certification in FY 2024-25.
Maintaining records
Maintaining 
records 
of 
client 
identification data/information for a 
period of 5 years from the closure of 
client relationship, and transaction 
records for a period of 5 years from 
the date of transaction.
Due-diligence 
of 
Politically 
Exposed Person(s) (PEPs)
Conducting enhanced due diligence 
for Politically Exposed Person 
(PEP) clients and obtaining senior 
management’s approvals for 
opening an account. Such accounts 
are 
subjected 
to 
enhanced 
monitoring on an ongoing basis.
Customer Due Diligence (CDD)
Norms for collection of KYC documents, verification of the documents from 
independent and reliable sources, wherever applicable, and identification and 
verification of beneficial owners in case of legal entity clients. Clients are also 
subjected to periodic updation of due diligence requirements at least once in 
2 years for high-risk customers, once in 8 years for medium-risk customers, 
and once in 10 years for low-risk customers. Non-face-to-face sourcing of the 
clients is made subject to ensuring additional due diligence, as per the local 
regulatory guidelines.
Name screening against negative list
Conducting necessary name screening 
against the regulator prescribed 
negative lists before opening client 
accounts so as to ensure that the 
identity of the customer does not 
match with any person with known 
criminal background or with banned 
entities such as individual terrorists or 
terrorist organisations.
Transaction monitoring
Comprehensive transaction monitoring 
processes to ensure that client 
transactions are consistent with the 
customers’ business, risk profile and 
the source of funds, and regulatory 
reporting to the FIU-Ind as prescribed 
under the regulations.
Key elements of the Bank's KYC & AML Policy
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
105
Responsible tax management1
The Bank has a dedicated function charged with regulatory 
reporting and taxation that reports into the Chief Financial 
Officer with further oversight from the Board-level Audit 
Committee. The Bank ensures professional diligence and 
care in managing risks associated with tax matters based 
on appropriate research and well-reasoned conclusions in 
consultation with the tax advisors, experts, counsels and 
auditors on an ongoing basis. To ensure that the Bank is 
compliant with all regulatory and applicable norms, the 
taxation function is subject to periodic audits including tax 
audits, internal audits and statutory audits, amongst others. 
The Bank’s tax disclosures are audited by the Bank’s statutory 
auditors and published in its annual report. The Bank is 
committed and strives towards proactive, professional, 
constructive and transparent dealings with tax authorities. 
Any concerns related to taxation, received through the Bank’s 
channels are addressed by the Bank’s Regulatory Reporting 
& Taxation team. Necessary disclosures, whether material or 
not, emanating from the tax authorities’ orders are made in a 
timely manner in accordance with the rules, and regulations 
issued by the market regulator. The Bank complies with all 
applicable reporting requirements as per Indian tax laws. 
The annual report of the Bank includes disclosures with 
regard to provision for taxes in accordance with the applicable 
accounting norms of India.
Ethical procurement 
As India’s first banking signatory to the UN Global 
Compact, YES BANK continues to abide by the 10 principles 
of the Compact encompassing human rights, labour, 
environment, and anti-corruption. The Bank uses these 
principles as a foundation for its sustainable supply chain 
practices. The Bank has instituted an ESG Supplier Code of 
Conduct, based on benchmark ESG parameters, defining 
its commitment to environmental, health and safety 
regulations; local employment and labour laws; human 
rights including elimination of forced labour, child labour 
and discrimination; national and international antitrust and 
trade control regulations; anti-corruption, anti-bribery and 
anti-competitive trade practices; and norms related to data 
privacy and conflict of interest, amongst others.
ESG Supplier Code of Conduct
	y
The Bank’s ESG Supplier Code forms part of its 
business agreements and contracts
	y
There 
were 
no 
incidents/violations 
related 
to 
corruption that led to terminations/non-renewal of 
contracts during the year1
	y
In FY 2024-25, the Bank conducted ESG awareness 
building workshops and value chain assessments 
with 20 upstream value chain partners, representing 
33.43% of the Bank’s total purchases. For the Bank’s 
detailed value chain disclosure, refer page 157 
1 GRI 205-3, GRI 207-1, GRI 207-2, GRI 207-3, GRI 207-4
106
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics: The Board has 
formulated and adopted Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics for the Board of Directors and Senior Management. 
The Code covers a wide range of business practices and 
procedures including fair practice, conflicts of interest, 
disclosures, confidentiality, amongst others. In accordance 
with the Code, Board members and senior executives must 
avoid and disclose actual and apparent conflicts of interest. 
The Code can be accessed here: https://www.yesbank.in/
pdf?name=Code_of_Business_Conduct_Ethics_for_the_
Board_of_Directors_and_Senior_Management.pdf
Policy on Code for Corporate Governance: YES BANK’s 
Policy on Code for Corporate Governance codifies the 
governance practices followed by the Bank, which are 
in line with provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI Listing Regulations’), The 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, RBI Guidelines and other 
best practices being followed by Indian corporates. 
The Policy covers all aspects of Board Composition, Role 
and Responsibilities of the Board, Quorum for the Meeting, 
Role of the Chairperson of the Board, Managing Director 
& CEO / Executive Directors (‘Whole-time Directors’), 
Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors. It also 
covers Committees of the Board, their Composition and 
Terms of Reference, Process for Appointment of Directors, 
Induction of Directors and training & familiarisation 
programmes, remuneration of Directors, Code of Conduct 
for Directors including Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors, Code of Conduct for Independent Directors and 
Management’s Responsibilities.
Board Diversity and Fit & Proper Criteria and Succession 
Planning: The Bank has a Board-approved ‘Policy on Board 
Diversity and Fit & Proper Criteria and Succession Planning’ 
(‘Fit & Proper Policy’) which comprises the Bank's approach 
on diversity of Board Composition, succession planning and 
the detailed process for appointment of Directors.
Remuneration Policy: The Board has adopted a 
Remuneration Policy in line with the requirements under 
the provisions of Section 197 and Section 198 of the 
Companies Act, 2013. The Policy is prepared in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act and rules made thereunder, 
SEBI LODR Regulations, the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 
and circular and guidelines issued thereunder. The Board's 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee (N&RC) reviews 
and amends this policy from time to time. The policy can be 
accessed here: https://www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=board_
kmp_sr_mgmt_remuneration_policy_pdf.pdf
Tax Strategy: As a responsible corporate citizen, the Bank 
is committed to following good corporate practices in 
tax management and tax transparency, and contribute 
to India’s sustainable development goals by responsibly 
fulfilling its tax obligations. The Bank has instituted a 
Board-approved Tax Strategy that aims to incorporate best 
practices in responsible tax management. The Tax Strategy 
is reviewed basis regulatory changes and is available 
on the Bank’s website at: https://www.yesbank.in/
pdf?name=yes_bank_tax_strategy_pdf.pdf
Risk and Compliance Culture Policy: The Bank has put in 
place a Risk and Compliance Culture Policy. The primary 
objective of the policy is to define the Risk & Compliance 
Culture for the Bank, highlight the way in which Risk and 
Compliance Culture can be fostered within the Bank and 
provide the methods and tools to continuously assess 
the Risk and Compliance Culture. At the Board-level, 
the implementation of this policy is overseen by the 
Risk Management Committee and the Audit Committee. 
At the management level, the Apex Management 
Committee (AMCOM), Chief Compliance Officer and Chief 
Risk Officer oversee the implementation of the policy. 
In line with the policy, the Risk and Compliance Culture 
is fostered through leadership's commitment, Code of 
Conduct & accountability, information & communication 
and through trainings, incentives & rewards. Further, the 
policy also outlines a roadmap for the Bank to achieve a 
more robust Risk and Compliance Culture.
The Bank's Policies pertaining to Governance and Ethical Business Conduct
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
107
Environment and  
Climate Change
Material Topics Covered
M-8
Climate Action
M-10
Operational Eco-efficiency
M-11
Sustainable Finance
Capitals Impacted
Financial Capital
C-1
Natural Capital
C-3
Manufactured Capital
C-4
Social & Relationship Capital
C-5
108
YES BANK LIMITED
The escalating impacts of climate change, evident in the increased frequency of extreme weather 
events, pose systemic risks to economies, businesses and communities. At YES BANK, a robust 
governance structure anchors its approach to climate risk, environmental management and 
the mobilisation of sustainable finance, at scale. The Bank’s nationwide operations adhere 
to stringent environmental standards, with a consistent focus on minimising its ecological 
footprint. Beyond operations, climate risk management of the Bank’s lending portfolio is a core 
strategic priority, that is being integrated across governance, risk frameworks and long-term 
planning. With an estimated USD 2.5 trillion needed to meet India’s NDCs by 2030 and USD 250 
billion in annual investment needed for energy transition alone, YES BANK also recognises its 
pivotal role in driving sustainable finance. The Bank has proactively embedded ESG and climate 
considerations into its lending practices, and has been at the forefront in developing innovative 
green financial mechanisms to support climate-aligned and sustainability-linked sectors. 
Key Priority Areas and Actions
	y
ISO 14001:2015 certified 
Environmental Management 
System (EMS) to identify and 
manage key environmental 
impacts, including emissions, 
waste and water
	y
Target to achieve net 
zero emissions from 
operations by 2030,  
with transition to RE as 
a primary lever
Reducing Environmental Footprint
	y
Climate Risk integrated as a 
material Pillar II risk in ICAAP
	y
Transition Risk management: 
Monitoring exposure to Brown 
Sectors & assessment of 
income vulnerability
	y
Physical Risk management: 
Monitoring exposure and related 
risk from key physical hazards
Climate Risk Assessment 
 and Management
	y
Measurement and disclosure 
of financed emissions from 
electricity generation, cement & 
iron & steel portfolios
	y
Financed emission target for 
electricity generation portfolio, 
aligned with well below 
2-degree scenario
Financed Emissions and  
Portfolio Alignment
	y
Mobilising finance towards 
climate-aligned sectors such 
as renewable energy and 
electric vehicles through 
targeted products
Climate Finance
	y
Environment and Social Policy 
(ESP) for enhanced evaluation 
of lending transactions 
with high E&S risk
Integrating Environmental and 
Social Risks in Lending
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
109
Reducing environmental impacts through  
operational eco-efficiency
The Bank’s facilities consume a number of key resources in the course of their business, such as electricity, 
diesel, refrigerants and paper, which generates waste and contributes to GHG emissions. In order to conserve 
the use of natural resources, improve key resource efficiencies, and reduce its carbon footprint, the Bank 
has adopted an Environmental Management Policy (EMP), with oversight from the CSR & ESG Committee at 
the board-level and the Sustainability Council at the management-level. The Bank has instituted a robust 
Environmental Management System (EMS) for achieving the objectives under its EMP. In FY 2024-25, the Bank 
successfully achieved its internal target of certifying its EMS as per the ISO 14001:2015 standard, covering 
1,186 facilities, for the 12th year in a row. With this,  YES BANK continues to be the first and only Bank, globally, 
to have as many as 1,186 facilities certified under this certification. A Bank-wide training module has also 
been rolled-out to educate employees on the Bank's environmental goals and best practices in environmental 
management. The Bank continues to migrate key facilities to 100% renewable energy, in line with its target of 
net zero emissions from its operations by 2030.
Operational Eco-efficiency
Climate Action
Sustainable Finance
1,186
facilities covered under the 
Bank’s ISO 14001:2015 
certified EMS
39%
Reduction in financed 
emission intensity of 	
electricity generation 
portfolio (from base year  
FY 2021-22)
A- 
Rated A- (Leadership Band) 
by CDP for its 2024 Climate 
Change disclosures, highest 
amongst Indian banks
728 ktCO2e 
Annual attributable emissions 
avoided through the Bank’s 
renewable energy financing
~26%
reduction in combined S1 and 
S2 emission intensity (per 
rupee of turnover) Y-O-Y
` 7,357 crore
in sanctioned debt facilities 
for supporting ~2,210 MW 
of RE projects (solar, wind, 
hybrid & pumped-storage)
20.21%
share of renewables in  
the Bank’s electricity mix 
(consumption)
~7,446
tCO2e avoided by migrating 
facilities to renewable energy
Key Highlights for FY 2024-25
110
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Key commitments under the Bank's Environmental 
Management Policy (EMP)
	y
Conserve natural resources: Adopt the 3R approach 
(reduce, reuse, and recycle) to optimise resource 
efficiency and integrate environmental considerations 
in new infrastructure design
	y
Commit to climate action: Strive to achieve net zero 
operational emissions by 2030, transition to renewable 
energy, and transparently report environmental and 
climate-related performance
	y
Improve the Bank’s environmental performance: 
Periodically 
review 
Environmental 
Management 
System (EMS) objectives, ensure compliance with 
applicable regulations, conduct periodic audits & 
self-assessments and embed best practices in 
sustainable sourcing
	y
Build environmental awareness: Communicate the 
policy and its objectives effectively to stakeholders, 
foster a culture of sustainability, and collaborate 
with global and national frameworks, implementing 
agencies 
& 
institutions 
to 
support 
global 
environmental efforts
Key Highlights – YES BANK’s ISO 14001:2015 Certified EMS
World’s first bank to have as many as 1,186 facilities 
under its ISO 14001:2015 certified Environmental 
Management System. Through its EMS, the Bank:
	y
Enables inclusion of environmental risks into its 
operational risk assessment
	y
Introduces processes for stringent tracking of 
environmental 
compliances 
through 
quarterly 
undertaking from respective Business Unit heads
	y
Ensures fulfilment of environmental compliances 
by 
landlords 
of 
leased 
facilities 
as 
part 
of 
lease agreements
	y
Streamlines 
waste 
management 
practices 
by 
onboarding pan-India vendors with relevant consents 
from PCBs
	y
Simplifies processes to procure Green Power from the 
grid by taking advance consent from landlords as a 
part of lease agreements
Reducing Emissions1
As the carbon emissions from its use of energy represent one 
of the Bank’s most significant environmental impacts, YES 
BANK aims to reduce its Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions with 
a target of reaching net zero by 2030. To achieve its net zero 
target, the Bank has begun migrating its facilities to renewable 
energy. In FY 2024-25, the share of renewable energy in the 
Bank’s electricity mix increased to 20.21% from 12.31% in 
the previous year, resulting in approximately 7,446 tCO2e in 
avoided emissions. Currently, three of the Bank’s Major offices, 
YES BANK House (Santacruz), YES Fintech Centre (Airoli) 
and R-Tech Park (Goregaon), along with 50 of the Bank’s 78 
Branches in Mumbai have been transitioned to renewables. 
In FY 2024-25, the Bank reduced its combined Scope 1 
and Scope 2 emissions by 8,034.52 tCO₂e and achieved a 
~26% reduction in emission intensity (per rupee of turnover) 
compared to the previous year.
GHG emissions from the Bank's operations1
Having a pan-India physical and digital presence, the Bank 
generates significant Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG 
emissions. In FY 2024-25, the Bank’s energy consumption 
stood 192,043.08 GJ. (For breakup of the Bank’s energy 
consumption from renewable and non-renewable sources, 
refer page 325). The Bank’s energy intensity, within its 
operational boundaries^ stood at 5.23 GJ per rupee of 
turnover (` crore). 
GHG Inventory
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Scope 11
Diesel Consumption (litres)
266,028.57 
 252,155.05 
Petrol Consumption (litres)
2,325.50
-
Scope 1 emission-fuel consumption (tCO2e)
673.32
633.43
Scope 1 emission-Refrigerant Leakage (tCO2e)
3,912.37
2,816.80
Total Scope 1 Emission (tCO2e)
4,585.69
3,450.23
Scope 22
Total Grid Electricity Consumption (MWh)
50,694.48
59,633.38
Total Renewable Electricity Consumption 
(MWh)
10,243.27
7,339.32
Total Non-Renewable Electricity 
Consumption (MWh)
40,451.21
52,294.06
Total Scope 2 Emission (tCO2e)
29,408.03
37,442.55
Total Emission Scope (1+2) (tCO2e)
33,993.72
40,892.78
FTE as at March 31
28,690
28,001
Emission Intensity ((S1+S2) tCO2e/FTE)
1.18
1.46
Turnover as at March 31 (in ` crore)
36,751.77
32,700.24
Emission Intensity ((S1+S2) tCO2e/ 
Turnover in ` crore)
0.92
1.25
Scope 33
Category 1- Purchased goods and services4
1,804.99
1,519.27
Category 2 - Capital goods5
526.02
1,270.08
Category 3 - Fuel-and energy-related 
activities6
14,772.69
15,547.74
Category 5 - Waste generated in operations7
9,159.79
2,666.01
Category 6 - Business travel8
2,391.84
2,275.17
Category 7 - Employee commuting9
24,138.48
8,776.16
Category 8 - Upstream leased assets10
6,674.64
6,682.17
Category 15 - Financed emission11
1,993,541.46
2,483,298.46
Total Scope 3 Emission (tCO2e)
2,053,009.91
2,522,035.07
^The Bank's operational boundary for data pertaining to its energy 
consumption and GHG emissions include its eight major offices in 
India (including the Bank’s Registered Office, YES BANK House in 
Santacruz - East, Mumbai), 24 other Offices, 1,255 Branches, an IFSC 
Banking Unit (IBU) in Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT) and 
a representative office in Abu Dhabi.
1 GRI 302-1, GRI 302-2, GRI 303-3, GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2, GRI 305-3, GRI 305-4, GRI 305-5, GRI 305-7
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
111
Air emissions: NOx, SOx and PM emissions through diesel consumption are 2,780.43 Kg, 625.55 Kg and 258.25 Kg respectively. This has been 
estimated using weighted average methodology
Footnotes
1 Scope 1 emissions include refrigerant leakage from Air conditioners used in the Bank’s facilities; Scope 1 emissions also include diesel 
consumption by DG sets in the Bank’s facilities and petrol consumption by Bank owned vehicles. The emission factors have been taken from the 
Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs - GOV-UK (DEFRA).
2 Scope 2 emissions constitute CO2 emissions from grid electricity consumed by YES BANK. For majority of facilities, electricity consumption 
has been taken from units mentioned in electricity bills. For few facilities where electricity bills were unavailable, consumption was estimated 
based on a combination of calculating average units from available bills, and applying a unit/ square-feet rate derived from facilities with 
100% bill coverage. Emission factors has been taken from the Central Electrical Authority (CEA’s) CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power 
Sector, Version 20. The Bank Switched to sourcing renewable energy to power YES BANK House (Santacruz), YES Fintech Center (Airoli), R-Tech 
park (Goregaon) and 50 out of 78 the Bank’s Branches in Mumbai, avoiding 7,446.86 tCO2e in FY 2024-25. The Bank's Scope 2 emissions for 
FY 2024-25, according to the location-based method, stood at 36,854.88 tCO2e
The Bank has one subsidiary, Yes Securities (India) Limited (YSIL), which operates 4 offices. In FY 2024-25, the total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
for YSIL stood at 293.39 tCO2e. The total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for the Group in FY 2024-25 stood at 34,287.11 tCO2e.
3 Scope 3 emissions include emissions under the following categories (reported as per GHG Protocol Corporate Standard).
4 Category 1 (Purchased goods and services): includes emissions from paper (A4) consumption. Environmental impact estimates (for paper 
consumption) were made using the Environmental Paper Network Paper Calculator Version 4.0
5 Category 2 (Capital goods): includes emissions from laptops purchased in FY 2024-25. Emission factors have been taken from the websites 
of respective laptop manufacturers
6 Category 3 (Fuel-and energy-related activities): includes Well-to-Tank emissions for diesel and Transmission and Distribution losses from 
electricity consumption. Emission factors have been taken from the websites of the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs 
(DEFRA), UK and the International Energy Agency (IEA)
7 Category 5 (Waste generated in operations): includes emissions from generated waste (dry waste, wet waste, plastic waste, hazardous, 
E-waste, and battery waste). Emission factors have been taken from the DEFRA website
8 Category 6 (Business travel): includes emissions from air travel. The emission factor for Business Travel have been taken from the ‘Emission 
Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories’ published by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), USA
9 Category 7 (Employee commuting): includes emissions from employee commute (to and from) their work locations. The emission factors for 
employee commute have been taken from India Specific Road Transport Emission Factors & India Specific Rail Transport Emission Factors for 
Passenger Travel and Material Transport by the India GHG programme. The emissions through daily employee commute have been estimated 
basis responses received through a primary pan-bank survey
10 Category 8 (Upstream leased assets): includes emissions from outsourced data centres and offsite ATMs. The energy consumed by the 
Bank's outsourced data centres for FY 2024-25 stood at 32,298.94 GJ1. The emission factor for electricity consumption through data centres 
is taken from the Central Electrical Authority (CEA’s) CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector, Version 20
11 Category 15 (Financed Emission): includes financed emissions from iron & steel manufacturing portfolio (991,066.51 tCO2e), cement 
manufacturing portfolio (458,519.45 tCO2e) and electricity generation portfolio (543,955.50 tCO2e) covering corporate loans, investment and 
project finance. The Bank has utilised “PCAF (2022). The Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard Part A: Financed Emissions Second 
Edition” to estimate financed emission. Where client emission data are not available publicly, BANK has utilised “Central Electrical Authority 
(CEA’s) CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector, Version 20” for emission intensity of electricity generation sector and where client 
emission data are not available publicly, Bank has utilised “PCAF Emission database, Source Exiobase Assets 2019 Region India” for emission 
intensity of iron and steel manufacturing sector. For cement manufacturing sector Bank has utilised “Climatiq data explorer version 13.13, 
Source: CBAM 2023 Region India” where production data is available and “PCAF Emission database, Source Exiobase Assets 2019 Region 
India” where client emission data are not available publicly for emission intensity of cement manufacturing sector. This year coverage for 
Category 15: Financed emission has been increased to include iron & steel manufacturing portfolio, apart from cement manufacturing and 
electricity generation portfolio covered last year. The coverage has been applied retrospectively and emissions for iron & steel manufacturing 
sector has been estimated for FY 2023-24 to maintain parity. For additional details on the Bank's financed emissions measurement, please 
refer to page 118 of this Integrated Annual Report.
1 GRI 302-2
112
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Energy consumption and efficiency1
Cognizant of its use of energy to power its facilities and 
operations, YES BANK has undertaken a focussed approach 
to monitor and reduce its energy consumption by enhancing 
energy efficiency and promoting energy saving practices 
amongst its employees. The Bank is also in advanced stages 
of phasing out air conditioning systems that are over 10 
years old and that use R22 refrigerants. This year, the Bank 
replaced 1364 tonnage in 93 branches with energy-efficient, 
inverter units, resulting in energy savings of approximately 
2,363.93 GJ*. The Bank’s overall energy consumption in 
FY 2024-25 decreased by 14.14%, totalling 31,636.51 GJ, 
compared to the previous year. This reduction was primarily 
driven by improvements in energy efficiency and better 
tracking & monitoring of energy use data. Additionally, the 
Bank’s targeted initiatives helped achieve a 23.61% reduction 
in energy intensity per rupee of turnover over the same period.
Internal carbon pricing
In order to drive low carbon transition of its operations, the 
Bank has undertaken an exercise to determine its internal 
carbon price. At an organisation level, the Bank has estimated 
an implicit price of ` 1,016.45 per tCO2e emissions, i.e. to avoid 
one unit tCO2e emissions, annual cost or required expenditure 
is of around ` 1,016. The estimation is based on the internal 
roadmap to achieve its ambition of net zero target covering 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, and annual expenditures 
required to achieve the reduction. The implicit carbon 
price varies for different facilities in different geographical 
locations. Facility level estimates range from implicit price 
of ` 652 per tCO2e emission to ` 1,210 per tCO2e emission, 
with the overall carbon price at an organisational level 
estimated at ` 1,016 per tCO2e emissions emitted. The Bank 
re-calibrates its carbon price on a periodic basis to consider 
emerging alternatives and evolving ecosystem. The implicit 
price enables the Bank to drive low carbon investment, energy 
efficiency and change in internal behaviour, positioning it 
to meet stakeholder expectation of doing business in an 
environmentally sustainable way. The implicit carbon price 
enables the Bank to transition faster to energy-efficient 
equipment and renewable energy sourcing, through inclusion 
of the cost of carbon abatement in its investments and 
expenditures, reflecting a holistic cost-benefit analysis.
Social cost of carbon
Using India-specific estimates from a study published in the 
journal Nature, the Bank has calculated the social cost of 
carbon of its emissions. At the social cost of USD 86 per tCO2e, 
the Bank’s social cost of emissions in FY 2024-25 is estimated 
at USD 179,482,312^, a reduction from USD 220,411,795 
in FY 2023-24. Further, the Bank’s social cost avoided as a 
result of emissions reduction initiatives (renewable energy 
sourced and renewable energy financed) in FY 2024-25 
is estimated at USD 63,277,048, an improvement from 
USD 53,685,926 in FY 2023-24. 
Waste Management1
The Bank’s significant sources of waste generation are 
limited to a few main areas of operation – dry waste from 
the Bank’s use of paper for its documentation requirements; 
e-waste from the use of electrical appliances such as 
computers and phones, used lead acid batteries from its 
Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) systems; residue oil 
from its diesel generators; and biomedical waste from the 
medical/health centres at the Bank’s facilities. In line with its 
Environmental Management System, the Bank has instituted 
robust mechanisms for responsible collection, recycling, and 
disposal of waste generated at its major facilities. The Bank 
has appointed central authorised vendors for the collection, 
recycling and responsible disposal of its e-waste, battery 
waste and other hazardous waste from all its facilities. 
The Bank has partnered with Viagreen to recycle the dry 
waste generated at key facilities including its corporate office. 
YES BANK House is also equipped with a composting unit 
to recycle its wet waste and a zero liquid discharge facility 
to treat its sewage, with the treated water used to maintain 
flora around the office.
*Energy savings have been calculated using an estimate of 44% energy saved by Inverter ACs, as per a research paper from the Springer 
publication. Running period has been estimated as per purchase date of the AC units. Energy consumption from non-inverter ACs has been used 
as a baseline for calculating savings.
^ Includes the Bank’s Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 (category 1; 2; 3; 5; 6; 7; 8 and 15) emissions. For additional details on Scope 3 calculations, 
please refer to page no. 112
1 GRI 302-4, GRI 302-5, GRI 305-5, GRI 306-1, GRI 306-2, GRI 306-3, GRI 306-4, GRI 306-5
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
113
Type of Waste  
generated
Description
Waste Generated 
Weight (MT)
Waste recycled/ 
 recovered Weight (MT)
Waste disposed to landfill/ 
incinerated Weight (MT)
Plastic Waste*
Plastic Bottles etc.
4.74
0.97
3.77
E-Waste
Desktop, Printers, Laptops etc.
46.05
42.56
3.49
Bio Medical Waste#
Expired Medicine, Bandages etc.
0.017
0.001
0.016
Battery Waste
Lead Acid Batteries
43.55
39.47
4.08
Hazardous Waste
Residue Oil from DG Sets
0.57
0.21
0.36
Dry Waste*
Paper, Stationery etc.
178.17
34.66
143.51
Wet Waste*
Leftover Food, Vegetable Peels etc.
210.78
27.21
183.57
*For FY 2024-25, Plastic waste generated/recycled/disposed includes actual data from 5 major offices. Other non-hazardous waste generated/
recycled/disposed, include actual data from 7 major offices (dry waste) and 2 major offices (wet waste). The Bank has also included estimated 
generated/disposed data (plastic and other non-hazardous waste), for the remainder of its offices and branches, based on facility-wise headcount
# Bio-medical waste includes data from five major offices which have an in-house medical centre.
Environmental and Social (E&S) Risk
YES BANK has adopted a proactive approach to address 
environmental and social impacts that could result from its 
lending activities. Towards this, the Bank has instituted an 
Environment and Social Risk Management System (ESMS) 
to assess and mitigate Environment and Social (E&S) risks 
of its financing activities. This effort is centred around its 
Environment and Social Policy (ESP) which was implemented 
in 2006, and serves as a structured approach towards 
responsible lending. 
The ESP, as an integral part of the Bank’s Environment 
& Social Management System, sets out the overarching 
framework for managing E&S risks commensurate with the 
nature and scale of transactions and their potential impacts. 
Through this policy, the Bank integrates environmental 
and social risks into its overall credit risk assessment 
framework, 
which 
goes 
beyond 
financial 
risk 
mitigation. The Bank has voluntarily adopted the policy, 
based on international frameworks such as IFC Performance 
Standards. The ESP is a crucial part of its credit risk 
appraisal process and the Bank continues to mainstream 
environment and social considerations across its lending by 
strengthening ESP integration with the overall credit 
risk assessment framework. The policy encompasses 
all the lending transactions of the Bank, establishing 
a risk-based approach where high value transactions that 
carry high ESG risks are subject to enhanced evaluation and 
approval through a specialised team of internal/external 
E&S risk experts. 
Water Management1
Considering the nature of the Bank’s business and the 
locations it operates in, there are no significant negative 
impacts related to water consumption and discharge, on the 
communities around the areas of its operations. The Bank’s 
primary use of water is towards human consumption. 
The Bank does not have any facility operating in areas of 
water stress. The Bank has set up water meters to track 
and monitor its water withdrawal at its major facilities. 
In FY 2024-25, the Bank’s annual water consumption stood 
at 317,867.2 Kilolitres^. The Bank’s head office, YES BANK 
House, is also equipped with a zero-liquid discharge system.
^In FY 2024-25, the information for water consumption includes 
actual data from 3 offices and includes estimated data for the 
remainder of its offices and branches, using an estimate of 45 litres 
of water consumption per head per working day for offices, as per 
guidelines published by the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA). 
Enhancing resilience of lending portfolio
The increasing frequency of extreme weather-related events and the socio-economic impact of unchecked global 
warming continue to pose significant risk to economies, businesses, and societies globally. Therefore, along 
with enhancing internal operational efficiency, it is equally vital for the Bank to understand and manage the 
environmental and climate-related risks embedded within its lending portfolio. By assessing and addressing 
such environmental vulnerabilities, the Bank strengthens its ability to anticipate potential impacts, protect 
the quality of its loan book, and safeguard long-term value for its stakeholders. This focus ensures that 
environmental considerations are systematically embedded within risk management, reinforcing the Bank’s 
resilience in a changing world and supporting its role as a responsible financial institution. The Bank has set up a 
robust governance structure to oversee its environmental and climate strategy, and has built internal capacities 
to identify, assess and mitigate risks. 
1 GRI 303-1, GRI 303-2, GRI 303-3, GRI 303-4, GRI 303-5
114
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Overview of projects for which E&S risk review was conducted (FY 2024-25)
In FY 2024-25, the Bank's E&S Risk unit reviewed 79 transactions which were either project finance cases or project-related corporate 
loans. The following three case studies provide a brief view of the processes involved in the implementation of the Bank's ESMS.
Ports project
	y
The Bank sanctioned facilities to a borrower for the development 
of a Western Dock on a BOT (Build Operate Transfer) basis, for 
handling Capsized vessels (up to 200,000 DWT) with Phase I and 
Phase II of 12.50 million tonnes per annum (MTPA), each. The 
preliminary desk-based assessment indicated the need for a 
detailed Environment & Social Due-Diligence (E&S DD)
	y
A detailed E&S DD assessment was conducted by an independent 
E&S Consultant identified by the Bank. The E&S DD report in 
its Environmental & Social Action Plan (ESAP) recommended 
improvements several areas, including, contractor operated 
canteens, biomedical waste management, batching plant, 
marine water quality & marine ecology monitoring, dredging 
operations, POSH, emergency preparedness and response & 
grievance mechanism
	y
The Bank is engaging with the borrower to mitigate the potential 
E&S risks identified in the Environmental & Social Action Plan 
(ESAP), within specified timelines
Sponge iron manufacturing unit
	y
A borrower approached the Bank to seek term loan facilities for 
setting up manufacturing facilities for 210,000 MTPA Sponge Iron 
and 22 MW Waste Heat Recovery Boiler Power project. As per the 
provisions of the E&S Policy, the Bank conducted a preliminary 
desk-based assessment to determine potential adverse 
environmental and/or social impacts arising from business 
activities of the Project
	y
The preliminary assessment highlighted the need of a detailed 
E&S due-diligence (E&S DD) in line with IFC Performance 
Standards (IFC PS) requirements and verifying compliance with 
applicable Indian E&S regulatory framework. Accordingly, a 
detailed E&S DD assessment was conducted by an independent 
E&S Consultant identified by the Bank to find and mitigate 
potential E&S risks associated with the project
CASE STUDIES
	y
The E&S DD recommended an Environmental & Social Action Plan 
(ESAP) for improving on site labour camp conditions, formulation 
of an Environment Management Cell (EMC), improvement in 
annual EHS training schedule, adoption of a work permit system, 
developing a system to track E&S ompliance and development 
of E&S policies and procedures in alignment with IFC 
performance standards for the project
	y
The Bank in consultation with the borrower finalised an ESAP 
as subsequent condition. The borrower accepted the ESAP and 
shared compliance reports to each ESAP observation over the 
next few months which were verified by the Bank
Pipe manufacturing unit
	y
A Borrower had engaged with the Bank for its participation in 
extending loan facilities towards the setting up of a 100,000 
Tonnes Per Annum (TPA) Electric Resistance Welded (ERW) 
pipe manufacturing unit in Maharashtra and a 50,000 TPA 
Helical Submerged Arc Welded (HSAW) pipe manufacturing 
in Madhya Pradesh
	y
As per the provisions of the E&S Policy, the Bank conducted a 
preliminary desk-based assessment to determine the potential 
adverse environmental and social impacts arising from the 
business activities of the project. This was followed by a field 
visit, by an independent E&S Consultant, for conducting an 
Environmental & Social Due Diligence (E&S DD). An ESAP 
report was prepared and discussed with the borrower and the 
borrower agreed to share the ESAP compliance with the Bank at 
specified timelines
	y
The Bank’s E&S team is monitoring improvements made by 
the borrower in the areas of fire safety, water conservation 
& resource efficiency, emergency preparedness & response, 
radiation protection & safety, and petroleum & explosive safety, 
as identified in the ESAP
	y
The ESP sets out the overarching framework for 
identifying and managing potential and/or existing 
Environmental & Social (E&S) risks (including climate 
risks) commensurate with the nature and scale of 
transactions and their potential impacts
	y
The policy provides for a ‘list of prohibited activities’ 
that the Bank does not finance. The list is derived from 
the IFC‘s exclusion list and includes sectors or activities 
that have a highly negative impact from Environment 
and Social lens
	y
The policy identifies and classifies the Bank’s lending 
activity into various segments, and accordingly advises 
the applicable procedures for E&S risk assessment. 
Typically, for project finance/project related corporate 
loan transactions as defined in the policy, the E&S risk 
team undertakes an initial assessment to determine 
the degree of adverse environmental or social impact 
arising from business activities of the borrower and 
accordingly categorises transactions based on the level 
of E&S risks involved
	y
For projects with significant E&S risks, the Bank 
conducts enhanced due diligence/assessment in line 
with IFC PS and national regulations through internal/ 
independent E&S risk analysts and develops corrective 
action plans with the borrower. The performance on 
these plans is monitored throughout the credit cycle
	y
Through the policy, the Bank strives to positively 
influence borrowers by engaging them in adopting 
appropriate sustainable practices to meet higher ESG 
industry expectations
Key aspects of the Bank’s ESP
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
115
Climate Risk1
Conscious of its environmental impacts and responsibility 
towards climate action, YES BANK strives to align its 
business to the Paris Climate Agreement’s goal of limiting 
global temperature rise to well below 2°C with efforts to 
limit it to 1.5°C. With an aim to mitigate risks and leverage 
opportunities arising out of a low carbon transition, the 
Bank has set up a holistic and long-term climate roadmap, 
integrating key actions towards reducing carbon emissions 
intensity of its operations, measuring and limiting its 
financed emissions, supporting climate-aligned sectors and 
aligning its portfolio with global decarbonisation pathways. 
Guided by this blueprint, the Bank continues to take 
proactive steps to integrate climate considerations into its 
business and contribute to building a climate resilient and 
sustainable future.
Climate-related risk identification 
YES BANK recognises climate risk as a critical risk and since 
FY 2018-19, the Bank’s management committees have been 
considering climate risk in their briefing. The Bank’s Internal 
Capital Adequacy Assessment Process details its importance 
within the framework, alongside other Pillar II risks. 
In line with the Financial Stability Board (FSB)’s Taskforce on 
Climate-related Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations, the 
Bank has classified these climate-related risks as Transition 
Risks and Physical Risks. Through desk research, the Bank 
has enlisted material climate-related risks faced by the 
financial sector, including Current Regulation, Emerging 
Regulation, Technological Risk, Legal Risk, Market Risk, 
Reputational Risk, Acute Physical Risk and Chronic Physical 
	y
Building resilience from climate risk: The Bank will 
develop robust frameworks for measuring and assessing 
material climate risk related to its lending operation and 
apply a climate lens to business decisions. The Bank 
will strive to develop its capacity and understanding for 
assessing its portfolio under various scenarios and take 
actions to build climate resilience within its portfolio
	y
Sustainable operations: The Bank will continue to 
reduce its carbon footprint and is committed to adopting 
industry best practices and standards such as ISO 
14001 Environment Management System for reducing 
emissions, 
energy 
consumption, 
and 
enhancing 
energy efficiency 
	y
Financing low carbon transition opportunities: The 
Bank strives to mobilise finances towards low carbon 
transition opportunities in India, leveraging global 
Key pillars of Bank’s Climate Strategy
green funds and green credit lines through innovative 
financial structures
	y
Policy 
advocacy, 
climate 
literacy, 
and 
robust 
disclosures: The Bank will engage with its stakeholders 
including clients, peer banks, Government & regulators, 
and climate scenario providers for accelerating low 
carbon transition, contributing to India’s net zero 
targets and Paris Agreement. The Bank will leverage 
its association with global initiatives such as UNEP 
FI Principles for Responsible Banking, Partnership 
for Carbon Accounting Financials, as well as national 
initiatives for collaborative efforts towards addressing 
challenges in climate risk management. The Bank is 
committed to aligning its disclosures to industry-best 
practices such as the TCFD recommendations
Risk. The climate-related risks have been ranked by the senior 
management, in the order of relevance to the Bank. Based on 
this survey, top ranking climate-related risks, with maximum 
potential to generate significant change in the Bank’s 
business operations, revenue or expenditure, were identified 
to establish a climate risk profile.
The top three risks identified for the Bank are:
1.	 Enhanced Disclosure Policies: Introduction of enhanced 
disclosure policies by the government and/or regulatory 
bodies may result in legal proceedings or penalties 
for organisations failing to comply with the enhanced 
disclosure requirements.
2. Stringent Environmental Regulation: With growing 
awareness on Environmental & Social (E&S) issues 
globally, countries have established robust E&S regulations 
that specify requirements for operating licenses, 
occupational health and safety standards, and emission/
discharge limits. Stricter environmental regulations may 
affect repayment capability of clients who fail to meet the 
enhanced regulations.
3.	 Increased Severity of Extreme Weather Events: In 
recent years, severe climatic events such as droughts, 
cyclones, high temperatures and floods, have impacted 
India’s economy, especially in sectors such as agriculture 
and allied industries. Climate change may increase the 
frequency and severity of climatic events, which can 
adversely affect employee & client performance, and 
therefore the Bank’s revenues.
1 GRI 201-2
116
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Climate-related risk management 
YES BANK refers to the Financial Stability Board’s 
(FSB) Taskforce on Climate related Disclosures (TCFD) 
recommendations for adoption of best practices around 
managing and disclosing climate risk. The Bank broadly 
categorises climate risks into physical and transitional risks. 
Physical risks are a consequence of direct physical impacts of 
climate change and range from acute risks (such as extreme 
weather events) to chronic risks (like gradual rise in sea 
level and temperature). Transition Risks arise from external 
efforts to address climate change including, but not limited 
to, regulatory and policy changes, technological advancement 
or shifts in investor sentiment and consumer behaviour. 
The Bank considers climate risk as a material Pillar II risk in 
its Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) 
document. The ICAAP details risks identified across short, 
medium and long-term time horizons, mitigating actions 
developed and planned, along with the overall governance 
and control framework. In line with its sustainability-focussed 
vision and commitments, YES BANK has put in place systems 
for managing climate-related risks at the organisational, 
project and portfolio levels.
Organisational level
•	 The Bank has a formal process for the identification of 
climate risks and opportunities. ESG and climate change 
related risks and opportunities are evaluated by Risk 
Management, Infrastructure and Facilities Management 
(IFM) and Strategic Procurement Units, for the projects and 
initiatives under respective domains
•	 In FY 2018-19, ‘Climate risks’ were added to the Bank’s 
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP), 
which is an integral part of the management and 
decision-making process in the Bank. Climate-related risks 
are reviewed annually to establish adequacy of measures 
taken by the Bank, along with the ongoing annual 
review of the ICAAP
•	 The Bank has also constituted an Executive level 
Sustainability Council to ensure deeper integration of 
sustainability into all aspects of business and banking. 
The Council helps develop formal structures and actionable 
frameworks to include risks and opportunities arising out 
of climate change and sustainable development
•	 To manage any potential service disruptions due to climate 
change, YES BANK has a robust Business Continuity Plan, 
which is ISO 22301 certified. In FY 2024-25, YES BANK 
continued to have the highest number of facilities, certified 
under ISO 14001:2015 Environment Management System 
(EMS), globally. The recertification is based on the Bank’s 
Environmental Management Policy released in 2016, 
which commits to reducing the Bank’s carbon emissions 
through broad-level actions
•	 Recognising the importance of enhanced transparency 
and disclosures, the Bank has been proactively reporting 
on its triple bottom line performance through its annual 
and sustainability reports. These sustainability disclosures 
are aligned with benchmark reporting frameworks, 
including Integrated Reporting, GRI Standards, TCFD 
recommendations and Principles for Responsible Banking
Project level 
•	 At a project level, E&S risk assessment is integrated 
into the overall credit approval framework. As part of 
the Bank’s Environment & Social Management System 
(ESMS), a Board-approved Environment & Social Policy 
(ESP) mandates appropriate assessment of E&S risks 
for project finance. The Bank has dedicated E&S experts 
housed within the Credit Risk Unit who are responsible 
for implementing the provisions of the ESP. These experts 
undertake preliminary E&S assessment of projects 
basis the severity of risk. Further detailed Environment 
and Social Impact Assessment is conducted against IFC 
Performance Standards (a number of cross-cutting topics 
such as climate change, gender, human rights, and water 
are addressed across Performance Standards) by internal/
external E&S Risk experts and appropriate covenants are 
included in the credit documents which are monitored 
throughout the credit cycle
•	 Further, for identified high risk projects, the Bank includes 
climate risk screening as a part of the Environment 
and Social Due Diligence. The Bank has also put in place 
a framework for readily capturing information on key 
physical and transition risk related indicators from clients 
in preliminary assessment checklist for all projects with 
sanctioned loan amount above a defined threshold
Portfolio level
•	 At a portfolio level, the Bank has identified high emission 
sectors (or brown sectors), and monitors its exposure 
concentration with respect to the overall exposure to 
these sectors, along with their rating mix and underlying 
exposure category. As part of its Climate Transition Risk 
assessment, the bank undertakes an assessment of 
income vulnerability due to climate risk
•	 The Bank has initiated measurement of financed 
emission of its carbon intensive portfolio, leveraging 
scenario-based assessment to develop roadmaps for 
building climate resilience of its portfolio. As a starting 
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
117
point, the Bank has analysed the financed emission 
intensity in the energy sector and developed internal 
targets to reduce the sectoral emission intensity, in line 
with global de-carbonisation pathways. The Bank is in 
the process of quantifying financed emission of rest of 
its portfolio, identifying its carbon intensive holdings and 
developing emission reduction targets (intensity/absolute) 
in line with the Paris Agreement (as per availability of data 
and methodologies)
•	 Further, as part of Climate Physical Risk assessment, 
the Bank monitors its exposure and related risk due to 
key physical hazards. The Bank continues to enhance 
its assessment framework, in line with availability of 
granular climate data
Advocacy and knowledge-sharing on Climate and ESG
The Bank works actively with stakeholders across the 
spectrum to develop frameworks and methodologies for 
addressing climate impacts and to build and share knowledge 
on sustainable financing opportunities. In FY 2024-25, 
the Bank was invited to share its experience in addressing 
climate-related risks in key forums, including IFC’s Conference 
on Climate-Related Financial Risks and Disclosures for 
Financial Institutions and RBI’s Policy Seminar on Climate 
Change Risks and Finance. 
The Bank continues to be a Member of key forums involved 
in driving ESG thinking and mainstreaming climate action:
UNEP FI and UNEP-FI Principles for Responsible Banking
YES BANK is the first Indian signatory to the United Nations 
Environment Programme- Finance Initiative. The Bank along 
with 32 global Banks and UNEP FI, founded and committed to 
the UNEPI Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB), the first 
global framework for enabling the banking sector to align its 
business to the objectives of the SDGs and the Paris Climate 
Agreement. For more information on the Bank’s progress on 
its PRB commitments, refer Page 170.
Indian Banks’ Association (IBA)
YES BANK is a Member of IBA’s Standing Committee on 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG).
BRICS Business Council: Task Force on ESG and Green 
Financing
The Bank is a Member of the Task Force on ESG and Green 
Financing, within the ‘Financial Services Working Group’ of 
BRICS Business Council (BBC) India Chapter, convened by FICCI.
Climate-related scenario analysis and Portfolio 
Alignment1
Methodologies and tools to link climate risk to traditional 
financial risk parameters, economic impact modelling, 
scenario analysis and stress testing are in early stages and are 
being progressively explored through global collaborations. 
There are challenges that need to be addressed in terms of 
climate-related data availability (such as frequency of climate 
events at good spatial resolution, regional and global impact 
on sector), availability of regional climate impact scenarios 
and holistic climate risk assessment tools and methodologies. 
In this context, the Bank strives to be ahead of the curve 
through striving to build its capacity and understanding of 
financial impact of climate change, and methodologies for 
scenario analysis, working in collaboration with peer banks, 
regulators and data providers. 
In line with its climate commitments, the Bank has initiated 
developing its capacity for scenario analysis and is leveraging 
scenario-based target setting approach to develop long-term 
climate resilient strategies and roadmaps on a best effort 
basis. The Bank has analysed its emission from its own 
operation in various scenarios, such as Business as usual, 
1.5-degree scenario, 2-degree scenarios, well below 2-degree 
scenario, and has drawn insights to develop an ambitious 
target of becoming net zero by 2030. Further, the Bank is 
striving to leverage methodologies and scenarios provided by 
the Science Based Targets Initiative for initiating assessment 
and is taking concrete actions to develop roadmaps for 
climate intensive/vulnerable sectors for alignment scenarios 
limiting global warming to well below 2 degrees/ striving for 
1.5 degree scenario. To start with, the Bank has developed 
a roadmap to reduce financed emissions of its lending 
sub-portfolio (electricity generation), aligning with ambitions 
outlined in Paris Agreement. The Bank would continue to 
build its capacity on this front, through piloting emerging 
methodologies and collaborating with regulators, peer banks, 
think tanks and data providers to accelerate developments.
Financed emissions and Portfolio decarbonisation targets
In line with global best practices, the Bank has initiated 
measurement and disclosure of financed emissions. 
Financed emissions are emissions of borrowers, that can 
be attributed to the Bank in proportion to the quantum 
of financing provided. The Bank is utilising “PCAF (2022). 
The Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard Part A: 
Financed Emissions Second Edition” as a guidance to estimate 
financed emission. The Bank has measured financed emission 
1 GRI 201-2
118
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
of its electricity generation portfolio, cement (manufacturing) 
portfolio and iron & steel (manufacturing) portfolio (covering 
corporate loans, investment (treasury) and project finance) 
and is striving to scale up the approach to other climate 
intensive sectors.
For its electricity generation portfolio for aforementioned 
asset classes, the Bank has used sectoral decarbonisation 
approach by SBTi to establish emission intensity targets 
in line with well below 2-degree scenario, striving for a 
1.5-degree scenario. Considering base year of FY 2021-22 
(baseline emission intensity of 0.628 tCO2e/MWh), the Bank 
has developed interim target of reducing financed emission 
intensity of its electricity generation portfolio, at least by 50%, 
while striving for achieving 75% reduction by FY 2031-32. 
The Bank has developed an internal roadmap for mix of 
non-renewable energy and renewable energy to achieve 
the target, that has been incorporated in risk appetite, and 
its achievement has been dovetailed as KPIs of relevant top 
management executives. Further, the Bank has developed 
additional internal criteria for incremental financing towards 
non-renewable energy sector. 
At the end of FY 2024-25, the emission intensity of the 
electricity generation portfolio was measured to be 0.381 
tCO2e/MWh, which was well within the trajectory of well 
below 2-degree and SBTi 1.5-degree pathways for the 
year. Compared to last year, there is a decrease in emission 
intensity of Bank's fund-based electricity generation portfolio 
from 0.479 tCO2 e/MWh to 0.381 tCO2 e/MWh, attributable 
to the reduction in the share of non-renewable energy 
segment in the overall electricity generation portfolio, and the 
reduction in output of non-renewable energy clients in terms 
of electricity generation for the year resulting in a decrease 
in the associated emissions per unit of INR crore outstanding.
In the Indian context, there are persistent challenges 
regarding availability and reliability of emission data. 
Further, gaps still exist in availability of generic sector specific 
financed emission intensity (such as financed emission 
per revenue or finance emission per unit of production). 
As the ESG reporting ecosystem in India evolves, disclosure 
on these aspects would further help the Bank to improve 
data quality of its financed emissions. In FY 2024-25, the 
Bank has also become a member of Partnership for Carbon 
Accounting Financials (PCAF), for pursuing collaborative and 
harmonised efforts towards measurement and disclosure of 
financed emission. The Bank would continue to explore other 
approaches for some of the sectors/asset classes to measure 
degree of alignment with the Paris Agreement.
Financed Emission estimation for key sectors
Sector
Portfolio 
Coverage* 
(%)
Attributed 
Financed 
Emission 
(ktCO2e)
Emission 
intensity
Data 
Quality 
Score
Electricity 
Generation**
1.11%
543.9555
0.381 
(tCO2e/
MWh)
2.01
Cement 
Manufacturing***
0.26%
458.5195
-
2.33
Iron & Steel 
Manufacturing****
1.84%
991.0665
-
4.33
*Portfolio coverage is a function of sectoral portfolio outstanding 
(Advances and Investment)/ Total Portfolio outstanding (Advances 
and Investment) of the Bank 
**Where client emission data are not available publicly, Bank has 
utilised “Central Electrical Authority (CEA’s) CO2 Baseline Database 
for the Indian Power Sector, Version 20” for emission intensity of 
electricity generation sector. Nil emissions assumed from renewable 
energy, considering that renewable energy generation leads to 
negligible emissions. 
***For emission intensity of cement manufacturing sector, Bank has 
utilised “Climatiq data explorer version 13.13, Source: CBAM 2023 
Region India” where production data is available and “PCAF Emission 
database, Source Exiobase Assets 2019 Region India” where client 
emission data are not available publicly.
****Where client emission data are not available publicly, Bank has 
utilised “PCAF Emission database, Source Exiobase Assets 2019 
Region 
India” 
for 
emission 
intensity 
of 
iron 
and 
steel 
manufacturing sector
FY22
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
TCO2e/MVh
FY23
FY24
FY25
FY26
FY27
FY28
FY29
FY30
FY31
FY32
SBTi WB2D
IEA NZE
SBTi 1.5
Actual Emission Intensity
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
119
Sustainable finance mechanisms
Given the large quantum of finances required to drive the 
sustainable development agenda, a number of new financial 
mechanisms such as green bonds and sustainability bonds 
have emerged globally that channelise finance to sustainable 
outcomes. According to a report by the World Bank, in 2024, 
the cumulative amount of labelled sustainable bonds issued 
in the market reached USD 1.12 trillion as at December 2024, 
with green bonds representing 57% of annual issuances. 
According to the most recent available data, India issued ~USD 
5.1 billion in green bonds in 2023, with cumulative green bond 
issuances (onshore and offshore) reaching ~USD 25 billion 
between 2012 and 2023, the highest among all emerging 
markets (excluding China). The government has also raised 
a cumulative of ` 57,697 crore (~USD 679 billion) through 
sovereign green bonds till FY 2024-25. The proceeds of these 
issuances are deployed in public sector projects that help 
reduce the economy's carbon intensity and aid in sustainable 
development. Backed by such innovative mechanisms, the 
global sustainable finance market is expected to grow from 
USD 3.6 trillion in 2021 to USD 23 trillion by 2031.
Green Bonds
YES BANK has always been at the forefront of identifying and 
capitalising on sustainable finance opportunities. The Bank 
kickstarted the green bond market in India, by issuing India’s 
maiden green bond in February 2015 and went on to raise 
` 1,645 crore (USD 260 million), through a total of three green 
bonds for channelising finance towards India’s renewable 
energy sector. The renewable energy projects financed 
through the green bonds proceeds would annually avoid 1,718 
ktCO2e in total, with attributable avoidance of 272 ktCO2e.
Green Deposits
The Bank is committed to driving much-needed finances 
towards green sectors and contribute to achieving India’s net 
zero target. In 2018, the Bank launched India’s first-ever green 
deposit product whereby equivalent proceeds raised through 
green fixed deposits, were earmarked towards SDG-aligned 
sectors. In the line with the new extant guildelines issued by 
RBI on its Framework for acceptance of Green Deposits, the 
Bank has put in place a Board-approved Green Deposit Policy 
and Financing Framework and is in the process of rolling out 
its Green Deposit programme.
Green Climate Fund
YES BANK is one of only five Accredited Entities for the 
Green Climate Fund in India. The Bank was approved as an 
accredited entity by GCF in November 2019, following a 
rigorous assessment of the Bank’s key administrative and 
financial capacities (which includes general management, 
financial management, control frameworks, transparency 
and accountability), fiduciary capacities (which includes 
project management, grant awards, on-lending and blending), 
environment & social safeguards, and gender capacities. 
The Bank was one of the first Indian private Banks to be 
nominated as ‘Direct Access Entities’ for GCF by the Ministry 
of Environment, Forests and Climate Change. The Bank is 
expediting its agreement with GCF to access GCF funding for 
climate mitigation and adaptation projects in India. The Bank 
is exploring potential project pipelines in climate change 
sectors like e-mobility, water & waste management, green 
real estate & energy efficiency, and climate smart agriculture.
Mobilising finance towards climate-aligned sectors 
The banking sector is a pivotal player in steering economies 
towards a low-carbon future. In the context of India, recent 
projections underscore a need for over USD 10 trillion in 
financing to meet its net-zero target, of which more than 80% 
is required for the transition of the Indian power sector alone. 
Recognising that the majority of this financing will need to 
be mobilised by domestic financial institutions, YES BANK is 
committed to offering innovative and responsible solutions 
to the industry and support the country’s transition to a 
low carbon future through its business activities. The Bank, 
through its financing to renewable energy, contributes to 
avoidance of emission in electricity generation, and assists in 
decarbonising India’s electricity generation. 
Advancing sustainable finance
The Bank also recognises the significant economic and social opportunities that can be unlocked on the road to 
climate transition. By actively identifying and supporting investments in areas such as renewable energy, energy 
efficiency, electric mobility, and climate aligned infrastructure, the Bank aims to enable its clients to adapt and 
thrive in a low carbon, resource efficient economy. These efforts not only reduce environmental impacts but also 
foster long-term resilience, drive innovation, and create new avenues for sustainable growth across industries 
and communities. In FY 2024-25, through targeted mechanisms and products, the Bank continued to mobilise 
finance towards climate-aligned sectors, facilitating the adoption of cleaner technologies and strengthening 
green infrastructure.
120
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Clean and renewable energy lending
In FY 2024-25, YES BANK sanctioned debt facilities of ` 7,357 
crore for supporting renewable energy projects including 
solar, wind, hybrid and pumped-storage of around 2,210 MW. 
YES BANK continues to offer innovative and responsible 
solutions to the power industry and support the country’s 
transition to a net zero carbon emission by 2070 through its 
business activities. The Bank has continued to channelise 
its efforts in meeting the country’s sustainability goals by 
sanctioning debt facilities amounting to ` 46,826 crore, 
towards ~10.11 GW, since 2015. 
Through its financing of renewable energy, YES BANK 
contributes to avoidance of emissions in electricity generation 
and assists in decarbonising India’s electricity generation 
sector. The clients/projects in the Bank’s renewable energy 
book (as at March 31, 2025) would lead to attributable 
electricity generation of 837 GWh and attributable avoidance 
of 728 ktCO2e, annually. Projects underwritten by the Bank 
have found a healthy appetite in the financing market with a 
significant portion of projects being successfully down-sold or 
refinanced. The Bank continues to have a positive outlook on 
the renewable and transmission sectors and is now exploring 
growth in smart metering as well as energy storage, domestic 
solar module manufacturing/assembly space.
Lending towards climate-aligned activities
Sector
Advances (outstanding) 
 as at March 31, 2025 
(` crore)
Renewable Energy*
2,787.63
Clean Transportation**
132.02
Rooftop Solar Loans to MSME’s***
31.68
Sustainability Linked Corporate Loan****
299.28
*Renewable 
energy 
– 
Solar/wind/biomass/hydropower 
energy projects that integrate energy generation and storage. 
(Corporate advances forms 97.42% of the renewable energy portfolio)
**Clean Transportation – Adoption of cleaner fuels, such as in electric 
vehicles financing
***Rooftop Solar loans to MSME – Financing towards rooftop 
installations of Solar panels 
****Sustainability Linked Loan- Debt instrument which has its financial 
and/or structural characteristics linked to predefined sustainability 
objectives of the Issuer, subject to the condition that such objectives 
are measured through predefined Sustainability Key Performance 
Indicators (KPIs) and assessed against predefined Sustainability 
Performance Targets (SPTs)
1,512.98
	 Solar
	 Wind
	 Hybrid/PSP
YES BANK’s Clean Energy Portfolio as at March 31, 2025 
(MW*)
210.16
951.18
2,674.32 
MW
*Capacity in MW is being representated in proportion to YBL's share 
of projects' total debt
India aims to achieve 50% cumulative electric power 
capacity from non-fossil sources by 2030 and cut 
carbon emissions by 45% (from 2005 levels) by 2030. 
However, the intermittent and variable nature of 
renewable energy continues to pose challenges such as 
grid imbalance during peak demand periods and underused 
transmission during off-peak hours. Firm and despatchable 
renewable energy (FDRE) addresses this by combining 
renewables with energy storage systems (ESSs) to 
provide reliable, round-the-clock green power. To promote 
FDRE installations, in 2023, the Ministry of Power issued 
guidelines for FDRE bids, requiring higher reliability for 
power on demand and introducing performance-linked 
penalties for shortfalls. 
With an aim to promote innovative technologies and 
models in the renewable energy space, in FY 2024-25, YES 
BANK supported a leading renewable energy developer 
in financing a 200 MW FDRE project aimed at delivering 
assured green power to the grid. The developer was 
selected as a successful bidder through a competitive 
process conducted by a designated Renewable Energy 
Implementing Agency, underscoring the project’s 
technical robustness. To support project execution and 
commercial readiness, the Bank extended a tailored suite 
of financial solutions, including performance guarantees 
and working capital facilities, designed to meet the 
operational and commercial needs of the Solar-Wind 
Hybrid RE plus Energy Storage model. By supporting such 
future-ready infrastructure projects, the Bank continues 
to play an enabling role in de-risking such projects for key 
stakeholders and demonstrating the commercial viability 
of FDRE models, for the larger market.
CASE STUDY: Enabling Round-the-Clock 
Renewable Power through FDRE (Firm and 
Despatchable Renewable Energy)
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
121
Owing to India’s geographical advantages, solar power 
remains the cornerstone of its renewable energy strategy, 
accounting for almost 48% of installations. Estimates suggest 
that India needs USD 300 billion in renewable energy (RE) 
investment by 2032 to meet its target of achieving 500 
GW of non-fossil fuel capacity. Therefore, cost reduction in 
RE projects has become a crucial factor in achieving higher 
capacity installations. Moreover, the rapid expansion in solar 
projects has also given rise to two pressing challenges: 1) High 
project cost due to transmission infrastructure constraints, 
and 2) Difficulty in acquiring suitable land owing to ecological 
and social sensitivities.
In FY 2024-25, YES BANK underwrote and financed (as sole 
lender), a 300 MW low-cost utility-scale solar project that 
could offer an innovative and scalable solution for financing 
FDRE projects in future. Structured under a single Special 
Purpose Vehicle (SPV), the project achieves cost efficiencies 
and offers market-linked benefits through: 
1. 	Shared Infrastructure The SPV leverages common 
transmission leading to operational synergies and reduced 
capital expenditure.
CASE STUDY: Accelerating shift to a low-carbon economy through a 300 MW low-cost, utility-scale 
solar project
2.	 Land-Lease Model: By adopting a long-term land-lease 
approach instead of land acquisition, the project 
lowers upfront costs while offering stable income to 
landowners, ensuring inclusive development.
3.	 Project Structuring: Combining two installations under 
a single SPV streamlines compliance and administrative 
functions, further driving efficiency. The pricing for the 
debt facility is linked to short-term benchmark rates 
(3-month T-bill) resulting in reduced pricing, aligned with 
milestone achievements.
Additionally, YES BANK’s robust environmental and social 
due-diligence framework, aligned with IFC performance 
standards, further enhances project sustainability. 
These measures have enabled a competitive power 
purchase agreement (PPA) weighted average tariff of 
` 2.46/unit, approximately 5% lower than average solar PPA 
tariffs in India for similar sized utility projects.
Electric Vehicle (EV) Financing
India's EV financing industry is projected to be worth 
` 3.7 lakh crore in 2030 (NITI Aayog). Consequently, investment 
in India's transition to e-mobility has the potential to create 
significant economic, social, and environmental benefits for 
the country. Currently, one-third of EV vehicles are being 
sold through financing and have the potential to grow cent 
percent with access to the right financing options. YES BANK 
offers EV loans at lower interest rates and contributes to the 
development of the electric vehicle ecosystem by financing 
auto ancillaries and charging infrastructure players. In 
FY 2024-25, the Bank’s book size towards EV financing stood 
at ` 132.02 crore.
122
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Social financing
In addition to climate finance, YES BANK is also committed 
to contributing to India’s other developmental goals by 
channelising finances to support critical sectors that have 
a deep social and economic impact. Through dedicated 
lending to sustainable agriculture, the Bank supports rural 
communities and promotes climate resilient farming practices 
that safeguard livelihoods. The Bank's focus on SME financing 
empowers small businesses, nurturing entrepreneurship, job 
creation, and local economic resilience. In affordable housing, 
the Bank facilitates access to, safe, and cost-effective 
homes for underserved populations, addressing a vital 
social need. By aligning its financing with these priorities, 
the Bank drives meaningful change, delivering long-term 
value for communities and advancing equitable, sustainable 
economic development.
Please refer page 146 of the Integrated Report for more details on 
YES BANK’s Social Financing.
Advocacy and knowledge-sharing on e-mobility and 
urban sustainability
The Bank’s Corporate & Government Advisory (CGA) works 
across emerging sectors such as urban sustainability, 
e-mobility and advanced automotive for creating new 
banking opportunities and deepening relationships with key 
customer segments. CGA is working closely with several state 
governments in policy development, implementation, project 
structuring and investment promotion regarding their clean 
mobility plans. The team leverages its expertise and strong 
ecosystem connects to provide inputs for Central Government 
schemes such as the support extended for the Ministry 
of Heavy Industries’ Faster Adoption & Manufacturing of 
Electric Vehicles (FAME) and Ministry of Electronics’ EV 
Subsystem Scheme.
Since the launch of the Smart Cities Mission by the 
Government of India, CGA has engaged with over 30+ Smart 
cities through advisory, banking and implementation support 
for project development. The team works closely with urban 
governance bodies to strengthen civic administration in 
areas of revenue augmentation, sustainable capital planning, 
technical interventions for effective solid waste management 
policy-level support and other revenue enhancement 
initiatives. CGA has also supported municipal administrations 
in identifying innovative financing solutions to raise funds for 
the development of urban infrastructure. Some of the key 
engagements conducted in FY 2024-25 include:
	y
Associated with FICCI as Knowledge Partner to FICCI’s EV 
committee, partnered on FICCI’s ‘National Conference on 
Electric Vehicles’ and released ‘FICCI-YES BANK Report on 
Driving ZEV Transition - From Centre to State’
	y
Advisory support to Smart City - Preparation of Financial 
& Resource Growth Plan
	y
Advisory 
support 
to 
Premier 
Institutions 
for 
preparation of Detailed Project Report for setting up of 
innovation park at an IIT
	y
Advisory 
support 
for 
Sub-Divisional 
Magistrate 
Administration for preparation of Area Development Plan 
for social infrastructure
	y
Conducted partner scan for e-mobility and advanced 
automotive 
components 
for 
an 
automotive 
component player
	y
Provided scheme advisory assistance for several 
automotive component, electronics and white goods 
value chain players
Environmental Management Policy: The Bank has 
adopted an Environmental Management Policy 
aimed at conserving the use of natural resources, 
improving key resource efficiencies, and reducing 
its carbon footprint. The CSR & ESG Committee 
of the Board has Board-level oversight, while the 
Sustainability Council has management-level oversight 
of this policy. A summary of the policy can be accessed 
here: 
https://www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=yes_
bank_environmental_management_policy_
summary_pdf.pdf
Environment & Social Policy: The Bank has adopted an 
Environment and Social Policy (ESP), aligned with IFC 
Performance Standards and national regulations, that 
integrates environmental and social risks (including 
climate risks) into its overall credit risk assessment 
framework. The ESP sets out the overarching framework 
for identifying and managing potential and/or existing 
Environmental & Social (E&S) risks (including climate 
risks) commensurate with the nature and scale of 
transactions and their potential impacts. A summary of 
the policy can be accessed here: https://www.yesbank.
in/pdf?name=ybl_esp_summary_pdf.pdf 
The Bank's Policies pertaining to 
Environmental Sustainability
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
123
People and 
Society
Material Topics Covered
M-3
Data Security & Privacy
M-4
Digital Innovation
M-5
Customer Relations
M-6
Employment Practices
M-9
Financial Inclusion
Capitals Impacted
Financial Capital
C-1
Human Capital
C-2
Manufactured Capital
C-4
Social & Relationship Capital
C-5
Intellectual Capital
C-6
124
YES BANK LIMITED
As one of India’s largest private sector Banks, with a national footprint, YES BANK serves a 
number of stakeholder groups, in various capacities, across the country. Given the scale of its 
reach and impact, the Bank is cognisant that its responsibility and purpose extends far beyond 
just financial transactions, and that it must play a larger role in empowering women, enabling 
entrepreneurship, encouraging small businesses, harnessing technology, and promoting 
financial access and literacy, in order to meaningfully contribute to national priority areas and 
address the country’s substantial developmental challenges. The Bank is committed to playing 
an active role in catalysing positive change, by working in coordination with relevant stakeholder 
groups, across its business and operations, towards developing mechanisms, programmes and 
products that help in bridging socio-economic gaps, and foster a more participative, inclusive and 
sustainable society for all.
Key Priority Areas and Actions
	y
Building a culture that espouses 
fairness, empathy, diversity 
and inclusivity
	y
Offering employees opportunities  
for holistic growth, development,  
and well-being
Inclusive workplace
	y
Innovating secure digital 
solutions to enhance customer 
service & experience
	y
Ensuring ethical, safe, and 
responsible selling practices
Responsible 
customer relations
	y
Extending reach of financial 
services to unbanked, 
vulnerable communities
	y
Supporting rural 
women entrepreneurs
Financial inclusion
	y
Integrating ESG considerations 
into supply chain
	y
Building awareness and 
assessing ESG impacts of top 
value chain partners
ESG in value chain
	y
Financing small, medium and 
micro enterprises and agri-value  
chain participants
	y
Enabling EWS and LIG segments 
invest in affordable housing
Social finance
	y
Target to catalyse employment 
and entrepreneurship 
opportunities for over 100,000 
youth by 2026, through skilling 
and training initiatives 
Employability and  
entrepreneurship
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
125
Responsible Workplace
Financial inclusion
Customer relations &  
digital leadership
23.17%
Share of women’s 
participation in workforce 
6.49 lakh
Active women borrowers 
in rural India
74
Bank’s Net Promoter Score 
for FY 2024-25 (up from 70 in 
FY 2023-24)
` 1,383 crore
Disbursed to women microfinance 
borrowers in FY 2024-25
~1 in 3
Digital Payment transactions 
in India processed by  
YES BANK
` 3,997 crore
Term lending to microfinance 
Institutions for on-lending in  
FY 2024-25
16,000
Rural women provided financial 
literacy training
99.4%
Return to work rate after 
maternal leave 
28,376
Employees trained 
26.4%
Proportion of open positions 
filled by internal candidates
17.8%
Share of revenue-generating 
positions held by women 
employees 
400,000
Trees planted on farmers' land, 
since inception of agroforestry 
project in FY 2023-24
Corporate Social Responsibility 
68,000
Youth and farmers impacted 
through employability and 
entrepreneurship initiatives 
as at March 31, 2025
Key Highlights for FY 2024-25
Value chain*
22.38%
Share of value chain partners 
covered under ESG awareness 
programmes in FY 2024-25
15.88%
Share of value chain partners 
assessed for child labour, sexual 
harassment, working conditions 
and health and safety practices 
in FY 2024-25
*Based on purchases by value
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
126
YES BANK LIMITED
Responsible workplace 
In FY 2024-25, the Bank continued to nurture a high-trust, high-performance, ‘people-first’ culture, reflected 
in the Bank earning the prestigious “Great Place To Work®” certification for the third consecutive year. 
The talent, skill, knowledge and experience of its human capital represents a significant, strategic competitive 
advantage for the Bank. The organisation aims to continually cultivate, enrich and augment its talent dividend, 
by ensuring that all employees are provided opportunities for holistic growth, access to high-quality learning 
and development, adequate grievance redressal, and avenues for enhancing health and wellbeing. During the 
year, the Bank increased the strength of its human capital by 2.5% over the previous year to 28,690 employees 
(As at March 31, 2025). Diversity, equity and inclusivity continue to be central tenets at YES BANK, with the 
Bank increasing its share of women’s participation in the workforce to 23.17% in FY 2024-25 from 21.8% in the 
previous year. Women employees also held a higher share (17.8%) of the Bank’s revenue-generating positions at 
the end of FY 2024-25, as compared to the previous year. 
23.17% 
Share of women’s 
participation in workforce
99.4%
Return to work rate 
after maternal leave
6,647
Permanent women 
employees
7,605
Training programmes
192,821
Total training days
1,542,567
Total training 
hours
28,690
Total permanent 
employees
Key highlights
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
127
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) initiatives
YES BANK’s journey towards enhancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) has been a continuous and evolving process. 
The Bank has aligned its DEI strategy with its long-term goals, ensuring a comprehensive approach that permeates every aspect 
of its operations. Reflecting the organisation’s commitment to this cause, specific KPIs related to DEI have been set and adopted 
by business heads and the leadership team. Diversity and talent metrics are tracked to ensure representation across various 
levels of the organisation, fostering an environment where everyone feels valued and included. Efforts are further extended to 
creating an enabling ecosystem by auditing and updating policies to be more inclusive. Through regular training and awareness 
programmes, the Bank is cultivating a DEI culture that is both vibrant and resilient. Additionally, it actively engages with the 
community to promote DEI beyond the confines of the organisation. These collective efforts are designed to embed DEI into the 
very DNA of YES BANK, driving meaningful change and fostering an inclusive workplace where everyone can thrive.
	y
Equal Opportunity Workplace: The Bank’s policy on 
Equal Opportunity and the Code of Conduct prevents 
discrimination on any grounds such as disability, marital 
status, race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, and 
nationality, among others, and aims to treat all employees 
and job applicants equally. The Bank is an equal 
opportunity employer, committed to creating and 
nurturing a culture of inclusion and belongingness, with 
no tolerance towards any form of discrimination. Topics on 
discrimination and harassment are included in trainings. 
There is a defined escalation process for reporting 
incidents specific to discrimination and harassment. Such 
acts are treated as a serious misconduct and corrective/
disciplinary action is taken, if found guilty
	y
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (‘DEI’) Council: The 
Bank’s DEI Council not only drives the Bank’s institutional 
objective of an equitable work environment, but also 
spearheads diverse representation of workforce including 
the targeted long-term increase in the share of women's 
participation in the workforce to 30% by 2030, increase in 
the number of differently-abled employees, persons from 
Defence Services, amongst others. The council engaged 
with several external partners to develop a long-term 
roadmap towards enhancing the impact and effectiveness 
of the Bank's DEI initiatives. As a result of the Bank's 
proactive and consistent efforts, women participation in 
the Bank's workforce increased from 21.8% in FY 2023-24 
to 23.2% in FY 2024-25. Additionally, the share of women 
Key DEI initiatives
in STEM-related positions (as a percentage of total STEM 
positions) stood at 21.1% in FY 2024-25. This progression 
reflects a positive trend towards achieving greater gender 
diversity within the organisation, aligning with the global 
push for gender equality and inclusive workplaces
	y
Recruitment Strategies: The Diversity and Inclusion 
guidelines of the Bank are synergised with its recruitment 
and hiring strategies to attract a diverse talent pool 
and eliminate biases in recruitment. Employee salaries 
and compensation are always in line with the Bank’s 
defined compensation grid for the role and grade, which 
is gender and individual agnostic. In order to create a 
better workplace for women, the Bank has ensured 
that its hiring practices are inclusive and equitable. The 
Bank has taken several measures to enhance diversity 
within its workforce and to attract, onboard, and 
retain women talent:
	y 	 Inclusive Hiring: The Bank’s job descriptions are 
carefully crafted using gender-neutral language, and 
it ensures that its hiring panels are diverse in order 
to eliminate unconscious bias during interviews. 
Additionally, the Bank also actively participates 
in career fairs and networking events aimed at 
women professionals
	y 	 Specialised Hiring partners: The Bank has onboarded 
specialised recruitment firms to enhance its diversity in 
gender and beyond. Additionally, the Bank incentivises 
People Demographics – Diversity1
Management Band
Under 30
30-50
Above 50
Total
Male
Female
Male
Female
Male
Female
Senior Management
-
-
187
26
100
5
318
Middle Management
3
1
2,960
489
169
23
3,645
Junior Management
5,394
2,869
13,181
3,225
49
9
24,727
Total
5,397
2,870
16,328
3,740
318
37
28,690
1.	Senior Management includes MD & CEO, ED and employees in G1, G2, and G3 grades for FY 2024-25
2.	Includes Full Time Employees of the Bank (employees in India and at Abu Dhabi Representative Office) Data is as per employee count as at 
March 31, 2025, excludes 35 trainees, advisors and consultants
1 GRI 2-7, GRI 2-8, GRI 405-1
128
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
the placement of diverse executives by enhancing the 
fees paid to these firms for such placements
	y 	 Exclusive Women Hiring Drives: The Bank conducts 
hiring drives exclusively for women professionals 
on a regular basis in multiple locations, thereby 
encouraging them to come forward and apply for 
suitable roles in the Bank 
	y 	 Referral Incentives: Under the Bank’s Employee 
Referral Policy, additional referral incentives are paid 
to employees for referral of women candidates
	y 	 Step Up 2 YES: With an aim to welcome back 
women who have been on a break due to reasons 
like maternity, childcare, family exigency, personal 
health etc., the ‘Step Up 2 YES’ programme was 
launched through an external webinar in association 
with our partners, 'Aspire for Her'. Key offerings of 
the programme include support towards providing 
women with full time roles across multiple locations 
in India, handholding through selection process up to 
initial months of joining, amongst other interventions. 
Around 100+ participants joined the event and 
received valuable insights about the programme and 
the Bank’s women supportive culture. Key insights 
were shared by senior leaders from the Bank including 
the Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) and other 
Business and HR Heads
	y 	 YES Again: The Bank’s ‘YES Again’ programme is 
aimed at offering ex-women employees of the Bank 
an opportunity to join the Bank again. The programme 
aims to provide the female workforce a supportive 
and inclusive environment for career development, by 
promoting work-life balance and flexible work options 
to ensure that the women receive the needed support 
throughout all life stages. The Bank has reached out to 
hundreds of such ex-employees to understand if their 
career aspirations are in line with the opportunities 
available in the Bank. Upon identifying a suitable 
candidate, the Bank helps the candidates prepare, 
undertakes further interviews and screening to ensure 
that they possess the confidence required for their 
career transition
	y
Persons 
with 
Disabilities: 
To 
commemorate 
the 
‘International Day of Persons with Disabilities’, the 
Bank organised a session by a visually impaired trainer 
& change catalyst aimed at sensitising key leaders and 
managers on the creation of an inclusive workplace where 
differently abled employees can thrive. At the end of 
FY 2024-25, the Bank increased the number of differently 
abled employees, across locations to 37 from an earlier 
count of 25 in FY 2023-24. The Bank continues to focus on 
structured recruitment of differently abled persons
	y
Awareness building through workshops: The Bank 
also conducted multiple "Unconscious Bias" workshops 
which were intentionally designed to build awareness 
around the often, invisible barriers that unconscious 
biases create, particularly in relation to gender. By 
encouraging participants to recognise, reflect on, and 
actively challenge these biases, the workshops aimed to 
cultivate more equitable decision-making and inclusive 
workplace behaviours
Gender Pay Ratio 
YES BANK complies with local laws to ensure equal 
pay for equal work. The Bank follows an employee 
compensation philosophy that is gender-agnostic. 
The Bank’s remuneration policies are based on parameters 
such as role, experience, proficiency, level of competency, 
and relevant performance assessment measures. The Bank 
is committed to ensuring that all employees, both men and 
women, receive fair and equitable compensation across 
every role and level of the organisation. This commitment 
is embedded in its human resources policies, pay structures, 
and performance evaluation systems with a goal of nurturing 
a workplace where equality is genuinely valued and 
consistently practiced. 
For 86% of the employees, comprising Junior Management, 
the ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of “women to 
men” in the Bank is 0.89. For the remaining 14% comprising 
Middle Management and above, the ratio varies from 0.90 
to 0.94. The Bank tracks its grade-wise Gender Pay Gap 
metric, on a periodic basis, as part of its Compensation & 
Benefits Dashboard.
Ratios (Female to Male) of Average Fixed Pay across 
Management Bands
Management Band
Female 
(A) ` (cr.)
Male
(B) ` (cr.)
Ratio
(A) / (B)
Senior Management
0.95
1.04
0.91
Middle Management
0.30
0.33
0.90
Junior Management
0.08
0.09
0.89
The data represents employees active as at March 31, 2025
Ratios (Female to Male) of Remuneration* across 
Management Bands1
Management Band
Female 
(A) ` (cr.)
Male
(B) ` (cr.)
Ratio
(A) / (B)
Senior Management
1.20
1.38
0.87
Middle Management
0.33
0.37
0.90
Junior Management
0.08
0.09
0.89
The data represents employees active as at March 31, 2025
* Remuneration comprises fixed pay, bonus paid, value of stock 
options and benefits
1 GRI 405-2
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
129
‘Gender Respect and Commitment to Equality’ ("GRACE") 
programme
The Bank has zero tolerance towards any actions by 
employees that may be classified as 'Sexual Harassment' 
in the workplace, and is fully committed to upholding and 
maintaining the dignity of every woman working in the Bank. 
In line with “The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act & Rules 2013” 
(POSH), the Bank has a policy on ‘Prevention & Prohibition 
of Sexual Harassment at Workplace’. The Bank has also 
instituted Internal Committees to investigate and enquire 
into sexual harassment complaints, in line with its policy. 
The policy provides for the prevention of sexual harassment 
at workplace, protection of women, and redressal of 
their complaints.
Prevention & Prohibition of Sexual Harassment at Workplace
	y
All cases pertaining to “sexual harassment” are 
resolved as per the timelines prescribed in the 
POSH Act
	y
At the close of FY 2023-24, there were 4 cases 
pending 
resolution 
which 
were 
closed 
within 
timelines in FY 2024-25
	y
During FY 2024-25, 30 complaints pertaining to sexual 
harassment were filed, of which 17 cases were closed 
and 13 cases were pending resolution as at March 31, 
2025. As at July 19, 2025, all pending cases were closed
	y
The complaints received by the Bank are handled 
promptly and effectively with utmost sensitivity and 
confidentiality by the Internal Committees
	y
Appropriate action is taken in line with the Internal 
Committee’s 
recommendations 
in 
cases 
where 
allegations are established
The Bank sensitises its employees about indulging in any 
unwelcome acts or behaviours, which could be construed 
as sexual harassment, either direct or implied. Such acts are 
treated as a serious misconduct under the Bank’s Code of 
Conduct and dealt with utmost seriousness with regard to 
imposition of punishment, if found guilty. In an endeavour to 
spread awareness on the aforementioned policy and ensure 
compliance by all the employees, the Bank has implemented 
a plan of action to disseminate the information and train 
the employees on the policy under the ambit of the ‘Gender 
Respect and Commitment to Equality’ ("GRACE") programme. 
Additionally, the key points of the Act and the details of the 
Internal Committees are shared with all the employees and 
are displayed at branches and offices of the Bank.
Learning and Development:
YES BANK places a strong emphasis on fostering a 
dynamic learning culture that propels both individual and 
organisational success. The Bank offers tailored training 
programmes, covering technical skills, industry knowledge, 
and essential soft skills. 
The Bank employs a variety of training methods including 
coaching, mentorship, teams and network trainings, 
amongst others to ensure that employees can have access 
to knowledge in modalities that suit their method of learning. 
These programmes, delivered through e-learning modules, 
workshops, and seminars, ensure that employees are 
well-equipped to navigate the evolving financial landscape. 
All the learning initiatives at the Bank are domiciled under 
the aegis of YES School of Banking (“YSB”). Institutionalised 
in 2007, YSB was created with a vision to build a ‘Centre of 
Excellence’ for learning solutions in banking and related 
areas. The Bank spent ~` 1,416 per FTE on Training & 
Development in FY 2024-25.
Employees trained and programmes conducted
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total classroom-training programmes conducted
7,605
6,827
Unique executives trained in classroom trainings
26,218
25,638
Unique executives trained (E -Learning)
28,111
27,532
1. Classroom-training includes Classroom and Live Digital Training programmes.
2. Digital-training includes all types of E-Learning modules and Mandatory Recertification POPUP.
3. This is basis active employees with the Bank as at March 31, 2025. Active includes employee on notice.
Unique employees trained (Classroom + Live Digital Training): Gender-Wise Breakup
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Male
20,209
19,938
Female
6,009
5,700
Total
26,218
25,638
130
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Average hours of training: Gender-wise breakup1: (Classroom + Live Digital Training & E-Learning)
Type
Participant 
Training Hours
Headcount
Avg. Participant 
Training Hours
Male
1,160,471
22,043
52.65
Female
382,096
6,647
57.48
Overall
1,542,567
28,690
53.77
E-Learning includes all types of E-Learning modules and Mandatory Recertification POPUP.
Unique employees trained: Management Band/Grade-Wise Breakup (Classroom & Live Digital Training)
Management Band/Grades
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Senior Management
295
283
Middle Management
3,126
3,895
Junior Management
22,797
21,460
Total
26,218
25,638
Training Programme (Classroom): Category-Wise Breakup
Programme Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Behavioural and leadership skills
513
446
Employee induction
94
104
Mandatory policies and compliance
121
122
Process training
171
358
Product training
6,706
5,797
Total
7,605
6,827
1.	 Product training includes Product, Sales & Service related trainings; Process training includes Process & System related trainings.
2.	 Senior Management includes employees in Top/Sr. Management grades (G1 to G3), MD & CEO and Executive Directors) & Middle Management 
grades (G4 to G6) and Junior Management grades (G7 to G12 ).
Training Hours (Classroom, LDT & Digital)
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Participant training hours (Classroom)
404,801
550,716
Participant training hours (Digital)
1,137,766
1,435,094
Participant training hours (Classroom & Digital)
1,542,567
1,985,810
Participant training hours per employee
53.77
70.92
1.	 Classroom-training includes Classroom and Live Digital Training programmes.
2.	 Digital-training includes all types of E-Learning modules and Mandatory Recertification POPUP.
Average hours of training – Management Band/Grades Category-wise breakup1: (Classroom & Digital)
Management Band
Participant 
Training Hours
Headcount
Avg. Participant 
Training Hours
Senior Management
4,819
318
15.15
Middle Management
100,106
3,645
27.46
Junior Management
1,437,642
24,727
58.14
Overall
1,542,567
28,690
53.77
1.	 Data points includes YES BANK Limited full-time employees (India and employees at Representative Office) and excludes fixed term 
contractual employees (trainees, advisors, etc.).
2.	 Senior Management includes employees in Top/Sr. Management grades (G1 to G3) and MD & CEO and Executive Directors) & Middle 
Management grades (G4 to G6) and Junior Management grades (G7 to G12).
1 GRI 404-1
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
131
In FY 2024-25, the Bank spent ~` 1,416 per Full Time Employee, 
on training & development. A total of 1,542,567 training hours 
were clocked during the year, averaging 6.72 training days per 
employee. The following is a list of key learning interventions 
undertaken by the Bank, during the year.
	y
Regulatory / Compliance Programmes: In line with the 
Capacity Building guidelines by RBI, employees in specific 
roles were enrolled for mandated certification programmes. 
Additionally, relevant CXOs, select leaders and members of 
the Board completed the Certification in IT and Cyber Security
	y
CIEL YES Private Certification Program: As part of the YES 
Private certification intervention, a two-day workshop was 
conducted for Partners and Product Managers of the YES 
Private team. The workshop enhanced understanding of 
equity analysis, structured products, alternative investment, 
and strategy for effective client interaction. This was followed 
by a certification exam where all the candidates cleared the 
exam and received their wealth management certificate
	y
Executive Assistants Excellence Program: As part of 
continuous 
Professional 
Development 
initiative, 
two 
batches of ‘Executive Assistants Excellence Program’ were 
executed. This intervention was exclusively designed to 
empower Executive Assistants with the skills, strategies, 
and tools needed to thrive in their critical roles, enhance their 
leadership capabilities, and equip them with new techniques 
to maximise their efficiency and impact. Before curating 
this intervention, Diagnostic Survey and Focussed Group 
Discussions were conducted to understand the needs and 
expectation of each learner. Their inputs helped in bringing 
tailormade learning experience that boosted their confidence 
to contribute to YES BANK's growth journey
	y
YESsentials: YESsentials is a high-impact employee 
induction programme. It covers training on Bank’s Code 
of Conduct, key regulatory and compliance issues, Bank’s 
Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti-Money Laundering 
(AML) guidelines, Operational Risk Management, Awareness 
on Information Security, Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
at Workplace (POSH), various products and processes and 
Human Capital Management policies and procedures. The 
Bank’s induction also covers training on key aspects related 
to Environmental & Social Risks which includes topics such as 
Forest Land Clearance, Pollution, Statutory permits, Health 
& Safety, Labour, Impact on environmental resources, key 
reasons why Environment & Social Risk Assessment is an 
important tool for the same. The employees are required to 
complete recertification for these topics on a periodic basis
	y
YES Credit Excellence - A comprehensive series of 
workshops, in partnership with the Risk Management 
Key Learning Interventions1
team was conducted for Credit Managers and Senior Credit 
Managers across locations, from Credit Risk Management 
team to enhance the skills and expertise of credit managers 
across products. The program focussed on enhancing 
proficiency in credit risk assessment, reinforcing robust risk 
management practices
	y
SAFe – Lean and Agile Principles Workshop - A curated 
learning intervention for team members from BDTS on 
SAFE and Agile principles focussed on imparting knowledge 
of Lean and Agile Principles, including Kanban and Scrum 
Framework. It also emphasised understanding the roles 
and responsibilities of Product Manager, equipping them to 
effectively drive the continuous delivery of value
	y
Building Risk & Compliance Culture Workshop - At YES BANK, 
strong risk and compliance culture is not just a regulatory 
obligation, it is a strategic imperative. All new employees 
undergo an induction program which covers aspects on Risk 
Management and Compliance. Existing employees undergo 
annual recertification and customised learning interventions 
which covers Risk Management and Compliance related 
aspects to strengthen Risk and Compliance culture
	y
Information Security Awareness Training: With an objective 
to provide a practical and essential knowledge on Information 
Security that will help protect Bank’s data and personal 
information, ‘Information Security Awareness Training’ 
module series was launched
	y
Environmental management system Module: To strengthen 
employee’s understanding of the relationship between 
business operations and environmental sustainability, 
the 
Bank 
launched 
an 
e-learning 
intervention 
on 
Environmental management system. The module covers 
topics such as environmental aspects, impacts and the 
formulation of objectives and targets to foster responsible 
business practices
	y
Annual refresher workshop on Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment Act: The Bank conducted its annual refresher 
workshop on Prevention of Sexual Harassment Act for 
Internal Committee members, fostering a safe and inclusive 
workplace culture
	y
Embracing Change: A classroom intervention was launched 
for employees in Corporate Businesses and Support 
Functions to assist participants in comprehending the 
nature of change, adapting to it, and providing them with 
tools and techniques to successfully navigate change, 
regardless of its challenges.
	y
Advanced Workshop on Regulatory Returns and Compliance: 
A workshop was conducted for Regulatory Reporting 
team and select team members from Market Risk team in 
1 GRI 404-2
132
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
partnership with IIBF covering key aspects on regulatory 
requirements, calculating Capital Adequacy ratio, develop 
accuracy in Compliance Reporting
	y
Influencing Without Authority - These workshops were 
conducted for the Fee Based Business (FBB) team with 
practical tools and strategy to enhance their influencing skills 
while collaborating across departments
	y
Learning Management System: My Learning@YES is the 
Bank’s online Learning Management System (LMS) which 
supports digital learning and provides learners with increased 
access to learning content (in-house courses and externally 
integrated content partners), learning scorecards to measure 
actualisation against learning paths. The system offers social 
learning, advanced reporting & analytics, conducting and 
management of classroom training, classroom attendance 
tracking, and training schedule management. The LMS also 
has a ‘mobile-first’ approach enabling ‘on the go’ learning, 
allowing users to go through modules and appear for tests 
from the App ensuring better time utilisation and higher 
learning engagement for the employees
	y
Collaborate: The Bank’s Operation Service Delivery unit 
participated in a cross-functional, team style learning 
intervention called ‘Collaborate’ to promote internal talent 
mobility and cross skilling
	y
TBG Paathshala: A weekly learning series facilitated by 
internal SMEs and external speakers aimed at deepening 
product and process knowledge and provide an industry 
overview. Initially designed for the Transaction Banking 
Unit, it has now been expanded to include participants from 
various other teams
	y
Training on Human Rights: Advancing its culture of promoting 
respect and adherence towards human rights, the Bank’s 
induction program covers its policy guidelines on promoting 
human rights including key aspects such as valuing diversity 
and inclusion, providing equal opportunity, prohibition of child 
labour, forced labour, and human trafficking, healthy safe and 
respectful working environment, prevention and prohibition 
of sexual harassment at workplace and promoting respect 
to human rights across value chain. It also covers sessions 
on understanding various types of disabilities and effective 
strategies for inclusive communication
	y
Digital transition program: These programs aimed at 
enabling employees to adopt new digital tools, processes, 
and technologies at the workplace with the goal of helping 
them leverage digital advancements effectively, leading to 
increased efficiency and productivity, and supporting the 
overall digital transformation of the organisation
Leadership and Professional Development Programmes
	y
Leadership 
Acceleration 
Program: 
A 
curated 
learning 
intervention conducted for select leaders in the Credit Risk 
Management team. This program focussed on building 
leadership and team management skills, with an emphasis on 
ownership, accountability, conflict resolution, and developing a 
growth mindset to be transition ready
	y
Executive Presence and Fine Dining Workshop: A workshop 
conducted for select senior Relationship Managers to enhance 
their executive presence, business etiquette, networking 
abilities, personal grooming, and fine dining nuances
	y
Rising Stars: An insightful 2-day leadership program conducted 
for middle management level employees from the corporate 
unit. The program focussed on being self-aware, managing 
oneself while taking on bigger challenges in the transformational 
journey of the Bank and making them future-ready
	y
YES BM Gurukul: A customised orientation program conducted 
by industry experts and YBL SMEs to train newly joined 
Branch Managers
	y
Trade Finance Workshop: The Bank in collaboration with Indian 
Institute of Banking & Finance (IIBF) and developed a tailored 
program titled – Advanced Trade Finance Workshop, which 
covered an understanding of Trade Finance and Working Capital 
business sourcing with special focus on engaging new age SMEs, 
start-ups, IT companies having immense potential for trade 
and foreign exchange businesses. The program was conducted 
by experts from IIBF for employees from the SME Banking BU. 
All the participants including Zonal Heads, Regional Business 
Leaders and Product Sales Managers had a comprehensive 
learning experience whilst enhancing their expertise further 
in this domain 
	y
The Credit Assessment and Risk Management (CARM) 
Program: A specialised workshop designed to equip Regional 
and Cluster Leaders from the SME Banking Unit with essential 
tools for identifying macroeconomic indicators that impact 
lending decisions and enhancing underwriting skills to mitigate 
associated risks
	y
Development of Women Leaders: A cohort of 20 high performing 
women from the middle management cadre of the Bank with 
identified growth potential were nominated to attend the 
coveted Jombay’s 1000 Women Leaders Programme, from 
June 2024. The 6-months journey was designed in supporting and 
championing women and further enhancing their capabilities as 
leaders in YES BANK through Assessment Centres, 360 Degree 
Feedback, Master Classes, Digital Learning Journeys, Mentoring 
& Networking opportunities. While 17 continued the journey till 
the end, 10 were qualified as Finalists and 4 participants were 
declared as winners at the end of this journey
	y 	 Reaction For programmes lasting a day or more, the Bank 
gathers participant feedback through surveys, providing 
quantifiable metrics on their reactions
	y 	 Learning In areas like product, process, sales, service, and 
certification programmes, the knowledge enhancement 
through post-training tests is assessed
	y 	 Behaviour For leadership programmes, behavioural changes 
are evaluated, encouraging reporting authorities to integrate 
key learnings into their teams
	y 	 Results The business impact and overall effectiveness of 
programmes like productivity enhancement, measuring their 
contribution to business objectives is assessed
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
133
Training and business impact
Programme
YES Finance Workshop
YES Elevate Program SME Gurukul
Target Group
	y
Business nominated Roles: 
Zonal Heads, Regional Business 
Leaders, Program Manager & 
Product Sales Managers
	y
Business nominated executives (for performance 
enhancement): Profiles were Sales Officers CA and 
Sales Officer CASA
Programme 
Objective
	y
To enhance knowledge on Trade and 
Fx related products, concepts, and 
current market scenarios and for the 
team be better equipped in managing 
Trade and Fx related queries
	y
To enhance knowledge on Current Account Product and 
Cross-Sell opportunities with a strategic understanding 
of respective performance scorecard and portfolios thus 
improvising the overall productivity in terms of Sales 
Output through this intervention
Employees Trained
107
272
Post Training 
Business Trend
	y
Forex revenue displayed an 
improvement of 18% in January 2025 
(post-training period) from ` 12.96 
crore in September 2024 (pre-
training period)
	y
Forex revenue displayed a 
progressive trend on quarterly basis 
(Q1: ` 36.13 crore; Q2: ` 39.01 crore; 
Q3: ` 41.19 crore
	y
Number of accounts sourced increased by 12% in  
Q2-FY 2024-25 as compared to Q1-FY 2024-25, with 
Month+1 Average Monthly Balance of ` 21.54 crore 
	y
69% increase in monthly End of Period (EOP) for August 
2024 as compared to EOP for June 2024
	y
60% success ratio with active sourcing by team 
members who attended the trainings as compared with 
109 inactive (sourcing) team members during April 2024
	y
Current Account Quality New To Bank displays 
an average of 85%
Labour practices
YES BANK is fully committed to adhering to the highest 
ethical standards in labour practices across all aspects 
of its business including its own operations, contractors 
and partners. The Bank ensures that all its employees are 
treated with respect, provided fair wages, safe working 
conditions, annual paid leaves provisions, equal opportunities 
and equal remuneration for equal work, while addressing 
work-life balance along with annual paid leaves benefits for 
its employees. This commitment extends beyond the Bank’s 
own employees and includes those employed through third 
party contractors and business partners, who are expected to 
meet the same standards in line with the Bank’s values and 
Code of Conduct.
Reflecting its belief that fair compensation is essential to 
the dignity, wellbeing, and productivity of every individual, 
the Bank ensures that all its employees receive adequate 
wages that meets or exceeds the local cost of living 
estimates or recognised benchmarks. A living wage is a 
crucial aspect of the Bank’s obligations towards upholding 
human rights and labour standards and is integrated into its 
policies. The Bank ensures that all its employees are paid 
at or above a living wage and consistently evaluates and 
modifies its salary structures to ensure that they align with 
the living wage standards applicable to the areas in which it 
operates. All employees of the Bank are paid above minimum 
wages of respective locations. The ratio of entry-level wage 
compared to local minimum wage is 1.12#. The median pay for 
employees in the Bank is ` 8.50 lakh (As at March 31, 2025)1.
The Bank ensures open and regular communication with 
employees to foster a supportive and transparent work 
environment. While the Bank does not have collective 
bargaining agreements, All YES BANK employees are free 
to exercise the lawful rights to Freedom of Association1. 
Additionally, the Bank engages with employees directly 
through established channels for achieving continual 
improvements in workplace practices.
In the event of potential terminations or redundancies, the 
Bank adheres to a structured process that includes a minimum 
consultation and notice period in compliance with applicable 
labour laws and best practices. The process includes 
# The ratio has been calculated by comparing the standard entry-level wage at the Bank (male/female) with the highest 'local minimum 'wage' 
of the State/Union Territory that the Bank operates in
1 GRI 2-30, GRI 202-1
134
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
timely engagement and meaningful consultations with the 
affected employees to ensure transparency, exploration of 
alternatives, and mitigation of impacts, wherever possible. 
The organisation is committed to responsible workforce 
transitions, and manages such situations with dignity, 
respect, and fairness, ensuring sufficient notice and support 
aimed at enabling smooth transitions1.
Human Rights
In FY 2024-25, the Bank undertook an independent human 
rights due diligence exercise aimed at assessing the Bank’s 
policies and processes, identifying potential human rights 
related risks, implementing measures to prevent human 
rights violations, maintaining compliance with legal standards, 
and promoting ethical practices within the Bank’s operations. 
The human rights assessments and the associated due 
diligence covered eight critical aspects of human rights, 
essential for maintaining ethical and fair workplace practices, 
viz. child labour, discrimination, freedom of association and 
collective bargaining, fair remuneration, fair working hours, 
occupational health and safety, bonded labour, workers' 
involvement and protection of human rights. The process 
involved interactions and interviews with a diverse group of 
stakeholders, including senior management, employees from 
various departments, contractors, housekeeping staff, and 
security staff, ensuring comprehensive information gathering 
across different levels of the organisation. The assessment 
covered the Bank’s corporate office - YES BANK House, and a 
branch in Mumbai. 
Work-life Balance
The Bank has implemented a 'Working from Anywhere' 
policy to enable employees to work from alternate locations, 
in addition to working from their designated workplace. 
This policy provides certain allowances to remote working 
employees to meet expenses towards their internet and 
workspace set-up. Additionally, employees working at the 
corporate office are provided flexible work timings.
The Bank utilises its HRIS platform to ensure that all 
employees of the Bank achieve a healthy work-life balance 
and avoid excessive work hours, by offering transparent and 
clear information on work timings, work schedules, public 
holidays, and leaves. Work timings at YES BANK House and 
Designated Offices (including Branches / Branch Supporting 
Units) on all working days is from 09.30 am to 06.30 pm 
(Monday to Friday), with a rest interval (lunch break) of 
30 minutes. Employees working at YES BANK House are 
provided an option of flexible work hours with shift timings 
commencing from 08.30 am to 10.30 am with adherence to 
the number of stipulated daily hours of work. On working 
for more than five hours on a paid holiday, employees are 
eligible for compensatory off, which can be availed within 
30 days from such holiday. Employees, who for any official 
purpose have to work on a national holiday, are paid double 
the amount of gross salary for that day. They are also entitled 
to avail a compensatory off for working on a national holiday 
which can be availed within a period of 30 days. All employees 
on the Bank’s payroll at the start of the financial year 
(April 1) are entitled to an opening balance of seven days of 
sick leave. All employees on the Bank’s payroll, also receive 
25 days of privilege leaves for full 12 months of service with 
the Bank. One additional “Special Day Leave” is available 
to the employees to celebrate any special day (i.e., own 
birthday, marriage anniversary, birthday of immediate family 
members, amongst others). The Bank also has a Mandatory 
Annual Compliance Leave policy, according to which eligible 
employees are entitled for an additional 10 days of leave. 
The absentee rate in the Bank for FY 2024-25 was 1.65% 
(basis sick leaves availed by employees).
The Bank celebrates the gift of parenthood and undertakes 
several initiatives to support its employees as they take on 
new responsibilities as parents. 
	y
In line with the Maternity Benefit Act, female employees 
are eligible for paid maternity leave of 26 weeks 
	y
To enable young mothers, returning from maternity leave, 
better balance their childcare responsibilities and focus 
more effectively on work, the Bank provides childcare 
allowance with children up to three years of age, for paid 
services of one nanny up to ` 10,000/- a month
	y
The Bank also provides access to crèche facilities through 
empanelment with professional agencies managed 
by qualified experts. Children in the age group from 6 
months up to 3 years or as per applicable maternity 
benefit rules defined by the state government, can avail 
the crèche benefit
	y
Female employees upon returning from maternity are 
presented a gift voucher of ` 5,000/- per new-born child
	y
The Bank also provides surrogacy leave to commissioning 
mothers and adoption leave of 84 days to female 
executives for child adoption, below the age of 
three months
	y
Although there is no universal paternity leave law in India, 
the Bank’s male executives are entitled to receive 7 days 
of paternity leave to celebrate the onset of fatherhood
	y
With a focus on retaining talent, it has been prescribed that 
the performance rating for all women on maternity leave, 
in the performance year, should be assigned a minimum 
of ‘Meets Expectations’ in the annual performance 
review exercise
The Bank offers a range of benefits to its employees that go beyond mandatory regulatory requirements and public programmes. These benefits 
include, medical insurance, accident insurance, Employer National Pension Scheme (NPS), Gift Vouchers to women employees returning from 
maternity leave and paternity leaves among others.
1 GRI 402-1
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
135
The Bank’s analysis of its return-to-work rate after maternal and paternal leaves is presented below1:
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Maternal#
Paternal#
Maternal
Paternal#
Employees taking Parental leave
320
1,221
307
1,236
Employees resuming work
318
1,221
306
1,236
Employees continuing with the Bank after resuming work in the reporting period
299
981
285
954
Return to Work Rate ^
99.4%
100.0%
99.7%
100%
Employees continuing with the Bank 12 months after resuming work
194
828
138
703
Retention Rate (after 12 months) ^
63.4%
67.0%
55.6%
61.7%
^ The percentage of "return to work rate" has been calculated based on the employees that returned to work in the reporting period after parental 
leave ended and "retention rate" has been calculated based on employees that resumed work after parental leave ended and were still employed 
12 months after their return to work. 
# No causal relationship has been determined between paternal leave and voluntary exits
Occupational Health and Safety1:
The Bank has implemented an Occupational Health and Safety 
Management System (OHSMS) adhering to the requirements 
of ISO 45001, a global standard for occupational safety and 
health management systems. The Bank's OHSMS covers its 
corporate office - YES BANK House and YES Fintech Center 
- Airoli, along with 30 branches. In line with ISO 45001, 
the Bank has identified objectives and targets and works 
towards minimising OHS risks. As part of the certification, 
monthly safety audits and annual Hazard Identification & Risk 
Assessment (HIRA) exercises are carried out by the Bank to 
eliminate risks and applying a hierarchy of controls. Some of 
the hazards identified through internal inspections and safety 
audit include fire hazard, slip & trip injuries, and ergonomic 
hazards. The hazards identified are assigned a risk priority 
based on severity and probability and additional controls are 
put in place based on the risk priority. 
Employees can report work-related hazards by reporting 
them through the Infrastructure and Facilities Management 
(IFM) Helpdesk or YES Serve portal. Regular consultation 
between employees and IFM teams are also conducted 
through regional IFM council meets, where work-related 
hazards can be highlighted. The Bank’s OHSMS has been 
certified ISO 45001 compliant. 
In addition to reporting hazards, employees are also required 
to report incidents to the security and/or facilities team. 
The bank has a structured approach to incident reporting 
which allows it to document and analyse incidents, implement 
corrective actions and prevent recurrences. The Bank ensures 
timely responses and continuous improvement to all 
reported incidents. 
In order to ensure overall occupational health, safety and 
well-being of its employees and contractual workers, the 
Bank has put in place emergency preparedness and response 
mechanisms, with individual locations having a designated 
‘Emergency Handling Team’. It has identified emergency 
scenarios including fire, flood, armed robbery, bomb 
threats, earthquakes and first aid. As part of its ISO 14001 
Environmental Management System implementation, the 
Bank considers fire as a significant aspect and has put in place 
onsite Emergency Preparedness and Response procedures. 
There are periodic trainings and feedback sessions 
conducted for employees (including contractual workers) and 
security personnel to equip them to deal with fire-related 
emergencies. Individual locations are required to mandatorily 
conduct a fire evacuation drill once in every six months, with 
participation of staff and contractual employees. During the 
year, there were no incidents that resulted in any reported 
injuries/lost time. The Bank’s Occupational Health and Safety 
(OHS) Policy is available on its website. The Bank’s OHSMS is 
not based on any legal requirement and has been voluntarily 
implemented by the Bank in line with best practices in 
occupational health and safety. 
The Bank provides free medical support services for 
employees at five key locations YES BANK HOUSE 
(Santacruz), YES FINTECH Centre (Airoli), Noida office, NOC 
Gurugram and NOC Chennai. The primary objective of these 
medical centres is to promote a sense of care and support 
at the workplace. These centres are dedicated to identifying, 
addressing and managing health concerns in the workplace. 
Apart from primary medical support, the Bank also provides 
physiotherapy and dietician consultations to its employees.
1 GRI 401-3, GRI 403-1, GRI 403-2, GRI 403-3, GRI 403-8
136
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Health and wellness
The Bank has made substantial investments across 
physical, mental, and emotional well-being initiatives. 
These endeavours aim to create a holistic environment 
that nurtures the overall wellness of its employees.
Some of these initiatives include:
	y
Insurance Benefits: A comprehensive ‘Group Mediclaim 
Policy’ covering pre and post-hospitalisation of 
employees and their enrolled dependents (spouse, 
children) is sponsored by the Bank for all the employees. 
The Bank also sponsors the ‘Group Personal Accident 
Policy’ and ‘Group Term Life Insurance Policy’ with 
Critical Illness & Terminal Illness rider for the employees
	y
Employee Health Check-up Policy: To encourage 
preventive medical check-ups, the Bank has put in 
place an Employee Health Check-up policy for all 
employees. The Bank wholly sponsors the health 
check-up for employees aged 45 years and above. 
Employees below 45 age group can avail the services 
at discounted rates. Employees can book their health 
check-up through a mobile application. Additionally, 
24/7 Teleconsultation services are available for all 
employees and their families, which has improved 
accessibility to healthcare services. Apart from 
covering the employee, the policy is extended for up to 
6 dependent family members
	y
Medical Facility: The Bank provides free medical 
support services for employees at these 5 key centres 
- YES BANK HOUSE (Santacruz), YES FINTECH Centre 
(Airoli), Noida office, NOC Gurugram and NOC Chennai. 
These 5 centres have highest employee strength 
working out of one office premises. The primary 
objective of these medical centres is to promote a sense 
of care and support at the workplace. In addition to 
medical support, the Bank also provides physiotherapy 
and dietician consultations to employees 
	y
Employee Wellness: To help employees take better 
control of their health and wellness, a series of 
wellness webinars are organised in collaboration 
with experienced health professionals. Through 
these interactive webinars, the Bank aims to bridge 
that gap of awareness and urge employees to take 
proactive steps in improving their overall mental and 
physical health
	y
Fitness Centre: To aid employees achieve their fitness 
goals, the Bank has also set up a fitness centre and a 
Yoga Studio at the Corporate Office
Listening to Employees
With an objective of providing a productive and conducive 
work environment for all the employees, the Bank has a 
defined Employee Grievance Redressal Policy and a redressal 
mechanism in place. The process emphasises that all the 
stakeholders adhere to utmost confidentiality and any details 
of the complaint/grievance are shared on need-to-know 
basis only. The Bank has a dedicated ‘Employee Service Desk’ 
to provide consistent and superior employee experience. 
The Helpdesk allows employees to raise HCM-related queries 
through HRMS Mobile and Web portal.
Employee grievances in FY 2024-25
In FY 2024-25, 70 employee grievances were reported, of 
which 66 employee grievances were satisfactorily resolved 
during the year, while the remaining 4 cases were under 
review, as at March 31, 2025.
Employee Performance Management
An annual performance review (at the end of the financial 
year) is carried out for all eligible employees who have 
completed a minimum of six months with the organisation. 
The Bank follows a top-down goal cascade approach towards 
goal setting, enabling evaluation of individual and team goals 
during performance appraisals. 
The annual performance review for the Bank begins with 
self-assessment, followed by Reporting Authority (Manager) 
and Reviewer (skip-level Manager) Assessment, and 
concludes with a Committee Review. Committees comprising 
cross-functional leaders and Human Capital representatives 
review the assessment of senior executives and sign-off their 
performance descriptors. This stage of the process ensures 
objectivity, transparency, and collaboration.
The performance assessment of executives is based on 
performance descriptors and their definitions, employing a 
two-pronged approach which includes weightages to both 
business/ team goals and employees’ personal development 
goals. The definitions not only focus on executive’s 
achievements vis-à-vis expectations of the Bank, but also 
emphasises on the need to uphold core values of the Bank and 
consistently adhere to regulatory compliance and governance 
norms. The focus is not only on the Results (What), but also 
on the process of achieving them (How). Employees are also 
encouraged to have regular check-ins with their manager, 
throughout the year. 
The performance review process has been aligned further 
with the Bank’s priorities. The Management team’s goals 
includes Governance and Compliance Key Performance 
Indicators (“KPI”) along with their respective functional/ 
business KPIs. Further, with a view to provide an impetus to 
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
137
the Diversity and Inclusion charter of the Bank, it is prescribed 
that women employees embarking on Maternity Leave 
during the Performance year to be given minimum ‘Meets 
Expectation’ performance descriptor. 
The Bank’s performance management process and 
compensation philosophies are structured to support 
the achievement of the Bank’s Key Strategic Objectives 
(KSO). The Bank has a comprehensive process towards 
defining measurable Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 
for senior executives, which are set against the financial 
and non-financial KSOs of the Bank, and the goals framed 
for the performance year have a linkage with these KSOs. 
The targets for these are determined at the Bank, Business 
Unit and Individual level. Achievement of targets is assessed 
during the Annual Performance Review and the performance 
assessment outcomes have an impact on the remuneration. 
For Senior and Top management employees at the Bank 
and select Middle management employees, the variable 
remuneration includes Performance Bonus and Share Linked 
Instruments. For the rest of employees at Bank, the variable 
remuneration includes Performance Bonus applicable for 
monthly, quarterly or annual periodicity basis the role. 
The Bank has adopted an Employee Code of Conduct that 
applies to all employees. Comprehensive employee training is 
conducted on the Code, followed by mandatory certification 
tests. Compliance of the Code of Conduct is integrated into 
employee performance appraisals, which in turn may affect 
employee remuneration.
ESG KPIs
	y
As ESG is an important element of the Bank's strategy, 
domain-specific ESG KPIs such as KPIs related to 
enhancing gender diversity, emission reduction and 
EMS implementation and ISO 14001:2015 certification 
have been dovetailed into the goal sheets of relevant 
executive management
	y
Further, the Bank has included climate-related KPIs 
into the goal sheets of the MD & CEO and relevant 
executive management, including the CFO
	y
Each member of the Sustainable Finance unit, the 
focal sustainability team at the Bank, is responsible 
for delivering sustainability initiatives such as EMS 
implementation, ISO 14001 certification, natural 
capital, employee awareness and sustainability 
training, climate finance, triple bottom line accounting 
and reporting, among others. The outcomes & results 
of these responsibilities directly influence the pay 
and annual increments of the team. Members of the 
Sustainable Finance unit are officially recognised and 
appraised for their achievements and progress on 
milestones of the Bank’s overall Climate action
Percentage of total employees who received a regular performance and career development review during the reporting period
Management Category-wise breakup
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Year
Total
No.
%
Total
No.
%
Employees
Senior Management
303
303
100%
339
339
100%
Middle Management
3,506
3,506
100%
3,863
3,863
100%
Junior Management
20,382
20,382
100%
19,260
19,260
100%
Total
24,191
24,191
100%
23,462
23,462
100%
Annual performance review (at the end of the financial year) is done for all eligible employees who have completed a minimum of six months with 
the Bank as at March 31, 2025. Senior Management includes employees in Grade G1 to G3 in FY 2024-25 (excluding MD & CEO, ED and KMPs) 
and employees in erstwhile C, L, E, S Bands
Percentage of total employees who received a regular performance and career development review during the reporting period1
Gender-wise breakup
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Year
Total
No.
%
Total
No.
%
Employees
Male
18,780
18,780
100%
18,455
18,455
100%
Female
5,411
5,411
100%
5,007
5,007
100%
Total
24,191
24,191
100%
23,462
23,462
100%
1 GRI 404-3
138
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
	y
Marathons: To nurture comprehensive growth and 
wellness, employees were given opportunities to 
register for various well renowned Marathons in the 
country. Multiple YES BANKers have participated in 
various marathons including Made of Chennai Run, TATA 
Mumbai Marathon etc.
	y
Inter-Corporate Sports Events: YES BANKers actively 
participated in various inter-corporate sports events 
such as Chess, Carrom, Badminton, Table Tennis, Squash, 
Cricket, Football and Volleyball. These events provided an 
opportunity for employees to showcase their skills, foster 
team spirit, and promote a healthy work-life balance. Their 
commitment and competitive spirit have not only led to 
remarkable performances but have also brought laurels 
to the BANK, as they consistently excelled in comparison 
to participants from other reputed Corporates. These 
achievements reflect the drive and excellence that 
YES BANKers bring to both their professional and 
athletic pursuits
	y
DEI: On the occasion of ‘Pride Month’ which is celebrated 
worldwide in June, a highly interactive workshop on ‘YES 
TO ALL – LGBTQIA+ Perspective’ was organised for YES 
BANKers to sensitise the need of inclusion and understand 
everyone’s role in nurturing inclusive behaviours in 
the organisation
	y
Webinars: The Bank hosted a webinar on ‘International 
Day of Persons With Disabilities’ with an objective to 
sensitise employees on the different types of disabilities, 
learn the inclusive & respectable language and be a 
part of a conversation that breaks barriers and builds 
awareness. A webinar on ‘Breaking gender binaries’, was 
also conducted exploring its impact on daily life and how 
societal norms shape femininity and masculinity. The 
session discussed steps to foster inclusivity and gender 
equality, emphasising the need to challenge stereotypes. 
It concluded with practical strategies to break free from 
rigid gender norms
	y
International Women’s Day #AccelerateAction: To 
celebrate the week of International Women’s Day, the Bank 
hosted three insightful webinars; ‘Unshackled: Breaking 
Free from Limiting Beliefs’, ‘Her Health-Her Voice’, and 
‘Own Your Emotional Health’, covering self-growth, well-
being, and emotional resilience. As a special gesture, on 
March 7, the Bank gifted women employees at YBH a 
meaningful souvenir – Touch the Sky by Rashmi Bansal. 
This inspiring book shares real stories of courageous 
women who broke barriers and carved their own paths, a 
testament to the power of perseverance and action
Employee engagement
The Bank consciously invests in activities that promote physical, mental, and emotional well-being of its employees with an aim 
to create a holistic environment that nurtures the overall wellness and growth of all employees.
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
139
Retirement plans offered to employees1
	y
Gratuity (Mandatory): The Group provides for gratuity, 
for all employees. The Gratuity is payable to an employee 
as per Payment of Gratuity Act. The Group accounts 
for the liability for future gratuity benefits using the 
projected unit cost method based on independent 
actuarial valuation. The defined gratuity benefit plans 
are valued by an independent actuary as on the Balance 
Sheet date using the projected unit credit method 
as per the requirement of Accounting Standard-15, 
Employee Benefits, to determine the present value of 
the defined benefit obligation and the related service 
costs. Under this method, the determination is based on 
actuarial calculations, which include assumptions about 
demographics, early retirement, salary increases and 
interest rates. Actuarial gain or loss is recognised in the 
Profit and Loss account. The current employee Gratuity 
liability as at March 31, 2025 is ` 189.14 crore
	y
Employee Provident Fund & Employee Pension Scheme 
(Mandatory / Voluntary): Bank is registered with RPFC 
for managing the benefits under Employee Provident 
Fund & Employee Pension Scheme. All employees of the 
Group are covered under the Employees Provident Fund, 
a defined contribution plan in which both the employee 
and the Bank contribute monthly basis. The employee 
contributes 12% of monthly basic wages towards the 
PF and employer contributes 3.67% of the monthly 
basic wages to PF Fund. Employee Pension Scheme is 
part of Mandatory retirement plan wherein employer 
contributes on behalf of employee on a monthly basis 
and the maximum contribution is limited to ` 1,250. 
Employees having basic wages up to ` 15,000 per month 
are mandatorily covered under the scheme. Employees 
who currently draw basic wages of more than ` 15,000 
per month, however, were part of Pension scheme earlier 
	y
Employee Wellness Initiatives: As part of an employee 
wellness initiatives, various experiential workshops on 
Acupressure therapy, Physiotherapy for Professionals, 
Sound healing sessions, Meditation sessions, Desk Yoga, 
Zumba Dance Fitness sessions were conducted across 
various locations. Additionally, webinars on Navigating 
Diabetes - Prevention, Early Detection and Reversal, 
Fighting the Fungus, discovering your IKIGAI, Crystal 
Chakra workshop, Breast Cancer Awareness sessions, 
Leg Wellness, were well appreciated
	y
Reset Life Series: To emphasise the need to put material, 
emotional and spiritual life in balance and harmony with 
each other, various online webinars on Nurturing Wellness 
with Wisdom, RESILIENCE (Replacing Excessive Stress In 
Life In Exciting New Cheerful Expression), Sleep-Blissfully 
rejuvenating, Understanding CHAKRAS: Energy centres 
for self-control were organised for all YES BANKers
	y
YES BANK DAY: The YES BANK Day celebrations held 
on March 18 saw three exciting launches: YES BANK’s 
Agency mandate, YES Securities’ Omni App, and Bank’s 
Employee Value Proposition (EVP). All Bank branches 
hosted a Women’s Financial Literacy Drive, welcoming 
customers and emphasising on the importance of 
financial empowerment for women
	y
Employee Engagement Survey: The Bank has conducted 
Employee engagement survey for randomly selected 
5,001 employees, out of which 39% of the employees 
participated in the survey. Aspects of Job satisfaction, 
Purpose, Happiness and Stress are addressed in the 
employee survey
	y
Employee Net Promoter Score: The Bank registered 
an eNPS score of 55%, representing the percentage 
of 
employees 
with 
top 
level 
of 
engagement, 
satisfaction and wellbeing
Rewards & Recognition:
	y YES LEAGUE of Excellence: At YES BANK, Rewards & Recognition is driven 
digitally through an online portal called the ‘YES LEAGUE of Excellence’. It 
provides a formal recognition platform to reward excellence at YES BANK, and 
in turn, creates a culture of appreciation. All YES BANKers have the option to 
appreciate and wish their colleagues on account of professional achievements 
or personal occasions. Reporting managers can nominate team members for 
rewards on the basis of performance. In FY 2024-25, over 7,100 employees 
received rewards and 51,000 appreciation messages/wishes were exchanged 
through the Rewards & Recognition portal
	y Long Service Recognition: In an endeavour to nurture the ‘Culture of 
Appreciation’, a Commendation Certificate and personalised memento is 
presented under the Bank’s Long Service Recognition programme, to employees 
completing 5, 10, 15 and 20 years of meritorious service with the Bank
Rewards and Recognition for FY 2024-25
Category
Count
BRONZE
2,039
SILVER
527
GOLD
202
Trailblazer
696
SPOT ON
1,371
Rising Star
366
Y-Star
164
Young Leader
133
Team of Champions
1,701
1 GRI 201-3
140
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
shall continue to remain covered under the scheme. 
Employer’s share towards Employee Pension Scheme 
is 8.33% of basic wages not exceeding ` 1,250 (excess 
amount goes to PF fund). Contribution to Provident Fund 
& Employee Pension Scheme are recognised as expense 
as and when the services are rendered. The Group has no 
liability for future provident fund and employee pension 
scheme benefits other than its monthly contribution
	y
National Pension System (Voluntary): The NPS is a 
defined Voluntary contribution retirement plan. The 
primary objective is enabling systematic savings and 
to provide retirees with an option to achieve financial 
stability. Pension contributions are invested in the 
pension fund schemes. The Bank has no liability for future 
fund benefits other than the voluntary contribution made 
by employees who agree to contribute to the scheme on 
a monthly basis. Under this plan, employee can contribute 
up to 10% of his/her basic wages as monthly contribution 
towards the fund
The retirement plans mentioned above, pertain to employees in India 
and do not cover employees working at the Abu Dhabi Representative 
office. Employees at the Abu Dhabi Representative office are entitled 
to gratuity benefits mandated by UAE labour laws, liability of which as 
on March 31, 2025 stands at ` 4.30 crore
University & School Relationship Management (USRM) 
YES BANK runs a structured University & School 
Relationship Management programme (USRM) to create a 
mindshare amongst students from top Business Schools 
of India, through its flagship campus recruitment drive ‘YES 
Professional Entrepreneurship Program’ (Y-PEP) and its 
summer internship programme - 'YES Emerging Professional 
Entrepreneurship Program' (Y-EPEP), basis business plans 
and requirements assessed annually. A batch of 43 Y-EPEPs 
from Top B-schools underwent 2-months’ Internship journey 
with the Bank in FY 2024-25.
Technological Interventions 
The Bank has embraced innovative HR technologies, notably 
implementing a comprehensive, cloud-based, no-code Human 
Resource Management System (HRMS). This robust HRMS 
has revolutionised the Bank’s HR processes, bringing about 
significant improvements in digitisation and automation, 
thereby enhancing operational efficiency. Complementing this, 
the Bank leverages advanced HR Analytics through Power BI, 
thereby empowering data-driven decision-making through 
interactive dashboards and predictive models. Additionally, 
the HRMS suite is mobile-enabled, offering exceptional user 
interface and experience capabilities, garnering positive 
feedback from employees on the system's effectiveness 
and user-friendliness. These technological advancements 
underscore the Bank’s commitment to continuous 
improvement and innovation on employee experience. 
To engage with ex-YES BANKers and keep them updated 
with latest developments in the Bank, an Alumni Portal – 
YES AGAIN, has been launched providing ex-YES BANKers 
with access to certain HR documents and also offering an 
opportunity to refer friends/relatives, who may want to 
explore career opportunities with the Bank.
People Demographics – Region1
Management Band/
Grades
FY 2024-25
North
East
West
South
Senior Management
40
5
252
20
Middle Management
915
165
2058
501
Junior Management
7,786
1,647
10,664
4,611
Total
8,741
1,817
12,974
5,132
1.	Note: 26 employees working at the Bank’s Abu Dhabi Representative 
Office are not included
2.	Includes Full Time Employees of the Bank. Data is as per employee 
count as on March 31, 2025
3.	Region-wise breakup of the 35 trainees/advisors: North (4), 
East (0), West (29), South (2)
People Demographics – Nationality
Nationality
FY 2024-25
Employees
Indian
28,686
Emirati
2
Nepalese
2
Total
28,690
1.	Data has been compiled from the Bank's HRIT system (DarwinBox) 
which covers all of the Bank's employees 
2.	Data is as per Full Time Employee (permanent employees) count as 
at March 31, 2025 
3.	The Bank does not have part-time employees or non-guaranteed 
hours employees 
4.	The Bank operates in the banking and finance services sector and 
does not have workers 
5. 	There are no significant fluctuations in the number of employees 
during the reporting period
1 GRI 2-7, GRI 2-8
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
141
Total Attrition in FY 2024-251
Voluntary Exits - FY 2024-25
Management Band
Under 30
30-50
Above 50
Attrition 
Rates
Male
Female
Male
Female
Male
Female
Senior Management
0
0
25
4
12
0
12.1%
Middle Management
0
0
511
111
40
6
17.2%
Junior Management
2,685
1,365
4,358
930
2
0
38.7%
Total
2,685
1,365
4,894
1,045
54
6
10,049
Attrition Rates
48.3%
47.8%
30.4%
30.0%
18.0%
17.6%
35.5%
1.	 Attrition is based on average headcount as at March 31, 2025, and includes only voluntary exits. 
2.	 Senior Management includes MD & CEO, ED and employees in G1, G2, and G3 grades for FY 2024-25
Involuntary Exits* – FY 2024-25
Management Band
Under 30
30-50
Above 50
Attrition 
Rates
Male
Female
Male
Female
Male
Female
Senior Management
0
0
7
2
21
2
9.5%
Middle Management
0
0
114
14
15
0
3.7%
Junior Management
268
89
491
59
4
0
3.8%
Total
268
89
612
75
40
2
1,086
Attrition Rates
4.8%
3.1%
3.8%
2.2%
13.3%
5.9%
3.8%
* Exits due to dismissal, termination, retirement or death in service
Total Hires in FY 2024-251
FY 2024-25
Management Band
Under 30
30-50
Above 50
Total
Hire Rates
Male
Female
Male
Female
Male
Female
Senior Management
0
0
15
3
9
0
27
8.5%
Middle Management
1
2
239
50
8
1
301
8.3%
Junior Management
3,962
1,959
4,462
1,108
6
0
11,497
46.5%
Total
3,963
1,961
4,716
1,161
23
1
11,825
41.2%
Hire Rates
73.4%
68.3%
28.9%
31.0%
7.2%
2.7%
41.2%
1.	 Hiring information is based on the employees on-boarded during FY 2024-25.
2.	 Data points include full-time employees (India and Representative Office) and excludes fixed term contractual employees (trainees, 
advisors, etc.) 
3.	 Senior Management includes MD & CEO, ED and employees in G1, G2, and G3 grades for FY 2024-25
4. 	 The Bank’s average hiring cost per FTE is around ` 17,000 (FY 2024-25)
5. 100% of the senior management executives of the Bank were hired locally during the year (except one foreign national in India). Senior 
management includes MD & CEO, ED and employees in G1, G2, and G3 grades for FY 2024-25. The Bank's local operations refer to its 
operations within India. Significant locations of operation refers to the locations of the Bank's major offices. No significant operational changes 
were observed in FY 2024-251
Positions filled by Internal Candidates
FY 2024-25
Number of open positions filled by internal candidates 
8,720
Total positions created
33,079
 Percentage of positions filled by internal candidates
26.4%
1 GRI 202-2, GRI 401-1
142
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Supporting government financial schemes
YES BANK is committed to contributing to the government and 
RBI’s goal of expanding the access of financial services, deeper 
into rural underserved areas. The Bank promotes flagship 
government schemes such as the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan 
Yojana (PMJDY) and Kisan Credit Cards (KCC). Such schemes 
continue to play a major role in enabling unbanked individuals 
to formally enter into the financial system.
Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY)
Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) continues to play a 
major role in enabling unbanked individuals to formally enter 
into the financial system. Under the scheme, individuals can 
open a PMJDY account with no requirement to maintain any 
minimum balance and also access insurance facilities through 
the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and 
Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY).
Accounts opened under PMJDY (FY 2024-25)
Product/
service
Targeted clients
Accounts 
opened in 
FY 2024-25
Total accounts held 
by the Bank as at 
March 31, 2025
Savings 
Account 
(PMJDY)
Women (Urban 
+Rural)
46,163
100,271
Savings 
Account 
(PMJDY)
Individual in rural 
or hard to reach 
areas (Male)
16,257
30,666
Savings 
Account 
(PMJDY)
Individual in 
urban (Male)
59,380
114,093
Total
121,800
245,030
Financial inclusion
YES BANK has developed a Board-approved Financial Inclusion Plan which outlines its overarching strategy and 
approach for enhancing financial inclusion. The plan is reviewed by the Board on a quarterly basis. The Bank 
follows a holistic approach to financial inclusion by not only enhancing the access of financial services amongst 
hard to reach, and vulnerable communities, but also, by ensuring that it offers a comprehensive bouquet of 
financial solutions, customised and targeted at different bottom-of-the-pyramid (BOP) customers, based on 
their unique needs and requirements. The Bank has established a large network of Business Correspondence 
(BC) partners to deliver its financial services, to the last mile. In FY 2024-25, the Bank served over 3.03 lakh 
customers through its 572 Business Correspondent Branches. Additionally, the Bank’s network of 235 Business 
Correspondent Banking Outlets (BCBO), enabled it to provide both asset and liability solutions to over 1.23 lakh 
customers in the rural segment.
Kisan Credit Cards:
YES BANK’s Rural Banking Assets unit addresses the 
financial requirements of Indian farmers for crop production 
and ancillary activities through the issuance of Kisan Credit 
Cards (KCC). The Kisan Credit Card scheme aims to provide 
timely and adequate credit support to farmers to meet 
their short-term credit requirements for cultivation of crops 
including financial support towards post-harvest expenses; 
produce marketing loan; consumption requirements of 
farmer household; working capital for maintenance of farm 
assets and activities allied to agriculture; investment credit 
requirement for agriculture and allied activities.
KCC Transactions in FY 2024-25
Product/
service
Targeted 
clients
No. of 
clients 
No. of 
accounts 
Outstanding Book 
(` / crore)
KCC
Women/ 
Individuals in 
rural or hard to 
reach areas
9,724
16,545
3,776
Offering microfinance
YES BANK has established dedicated business units such 
as the Inclusive and Social Banking (ISB), through which the 
Bank provides microfinance and other financial services to 
women borrowers.
YES Microfinance: 
The Bank’s ISB division, through its flagship group-lending 
programme, YES Microfinance provides financial services 
to women microfinance borrowers, through Corporates 
and Microfinance Institutions (MFIs) acting as BCs. As 100% 
of borrowers are women, YES Microfinance has been able 
to contribute significantly towards strengthening women 
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
143
entrepreneurship and empowerment in rural areas of 
India. With an active women customer base of 649,109 
(as at March 31, 2025), the Bank in FY 2024-25, disbursed 
` 1,383 crore to 302,927 women. Since inception of the YES 
Microfinance programme in 2011, the Bank has cumulatively 
disbursed over ` 17,701 crore to over 40 lakh families, till date.
Microfinance loans extended under YES Microfinance in 
FY 2024-25
Product/
service
Targeted 
clients
Amount 
Disbursed 
(`/ crore)
No. of 
women 
borrowers
Portfolio 
Outstanding 
(`/ crore)
Microfinance 
loans
Women
1,383
302,927 
1,803
YES Microfinance - Microinsurance
The Bank also offers voluntary insurance products like 
a customised loan cover life insurance product and a 
hospi-cash product for the rural and semi urban customers, 
to help them reduce their out-of-pocket expenses in case of 
health-related emergencies.
Micro-insurance coverage extended under YES Microfinance 
in FY 2024-25
Product/
service
Targeted 
clients
Premium Collected 
(`/ crore)
No. of insurance 
coverages extended
Micro-
insurance
Women/
family 
members 
of borrower
51.50
730,126 
On-lending to MFIs
On the wholesale side, the Bank, through its Financial 
Institutions division, works with Microfinance Institutions 
(MFIs) to provide term loans for on-lending to BoP customers, 
cash management services and rated capital market 
loan products like pool securitisation and Pass Through 
Certificates (PTCs).
Credit extended to MFIs for on-lending to Financial Inclusion 
customers in FY 2024-25
Product/
service
Targeted 
clients
Disbursements 
(`/ crore)
Outstanding book 
(`/ crore)
Loans
MFIs
3,997
4,517
Farm Mechanisation Loans 
In order to cater to the specific needs of farmers across 
specialised agri clusters, the Bank’s Rural Banking Assets 
unit offers variants under its flagship crop loan product. 
The Bank also offers loans to cater to the farm mechanisation 
needs of progressive farmers by financing the purchase of 
tractors as a primary asset class, along with harvesters and 
agri implements. The Bank currently caters to the needs of 
farmers in eleven states of India, with dedicated manpower 
present in these geographies. As at March 31, 2025, loans 
were offered to more than 79,900 farmers under the farm 
mechanisation and KCC services.
Farm Mechanisation Transactions in FY 2024-25
Product/
service
Targeted 
clients
No. of 
Clients
No. of 
Accounts
Outstanding 
book 
(` / crore)
Farm 
Mechanisation 
Loans
Farmers/ 
Individual 
in rural or 
semi-urban 
geographies
18,346
18,346
1,729
Remittances -ed approach
The Bank’s flagship programme YES Money meets the 
remittance need of migrants, unbanked and under-banked 
populations in India. Through Domestic Money Transfer 
(DMT) on the YES Money platform, the Bank facilitates the 
remittance and transfer of money from any location with 
ease, while enabling withdrawals at the remotest geographies 
through Aadhaar Enabled Payment Scheme (AePS) and 
Micro ATMs (MATM).
YES Money
YES BANK has been a pioneer in driving digital financial 
inclusion through its flagship programme YES Money, its 
unique platform to meet the remittance need of migrants, 
unbanked and under-banked populations in India. Over the 
decade-long journey of YES Money, the Bank has onboarded 
over seven lakh outlets which continue to enable its customers 
undertake simple banking transactions such as domestic 
money transfer and Aadhaar-based cash withdrawals.
Product
Market Share
AePS
39.21%#
MATM
17.8%
# Market share for entire FY 2024-25 basis NPCI data
144
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Promoting financial literacy
As part of YES BANK’s commitment to the National Mission 
of Financial Literacy and Women’s Prosperity, in FY 2024-25, 
Financial Literacy drives, targeted towards women were 
conducted across 1,248 YES BANK branches, empowering 
over 16,000 women with crucial financial knowledge.
Responsible lending and grievance redressal processes 
The Bank ensures that its staff adheres to the highest ethical 
standards pertaining to responsible selling and customer 
service. The Bank has also undertaken several measures to 
protect its microfinance customers from over indebtedness 
and to ensure that they are able to repay the loan without any 
harassment and duress. 
Steps to mitigate over indebtedness of borrowers: 
	y
Household Assessment: Prior to loan sanctioning, the 
Bank undertakes a detailed household assessment 
capturing the amenities and assets available in the 
household, income, expense and loan obligations of all 
household members. Through this process, the Bank 
arrives at the net disposable income for the household 
which is one of the key determinants for deciding loan 
eligibility and sanction amount 
	y
Limit of total indebtedness: To avoid over indebtedness 
of the customer, a loan is only sanctioned for cases where 
total indebtedness is less than ` 2 lakh (basis the MFI 
Credit Bureau report) 
	y
Loan applications are screened basis combined credit 
report (CCR) of the household: In addition to the total 
indebtedness limits, screening is also done basis 
delinquency in microfinance, agri as well as retail loans 
	y
Loan eligibility based on customer categorisation: Loan 
eligibility limits are also set based on categorisation of 
New to Credit (NTC), New to Bank (NTB) and Existing to 
Bank customers. The limit for NTC and NTB is deliberately 
set lower taking a conservative approach towards their 
credit exposure 
	y
Promoting responsible usage of loan: Women members 
are imparted financial literacy training through a process 
called Compulsory Group Training (CGT), by BC/Bank’s 
staff, and training efficacy is assessed through a verbal 
interactive test called Group Recognition Test (GRT). At 
the time of the CGT and GRT, customers are advised to 
utilise the loan that will be sanctioned for productive 
purposes. The purpose of the loan is also captured in the 
Loan Application Form and Sanction Letter
	y
Group Credit Protect and Hospicash: The Bank provides 
customers an opportunity to opt for insurance products 
such as Group Credit Protect (GCP) and Hospicash. GCP 
relieves the customer and household of the debt burden 
in the eventuality of the death of the customer or co-
insured. In most instances this is a critical support as the 
loss of a key earning member leads to economic hardship 
for the family and delinquency could affect access to 
future credit. Hospicash on the other hand ensures that 
the customer/household doesn’t have to dip into their 
savings/monthly income in case of medical emergencies, 
thus minimising any adverse impact on the customer’s 
repayment capacity.
Responsible customer handling and staff training: 
	y
Bank has a Board-approved Fair Practices Code 
specific to Microfinance customers, which outlines its 
commitment to not resorting to undue harassment or 
use of force against customers and that the Bank would 
be accountable for any inappropriate behaviour by its 
employees or employees of its outsourced agency 
	y
All ISB employees undergo the mandatory ‘Code 
of Conduct’ training module of the Bank. All BCAs 
(employees of YBL’s BC partners who are involved in 
sourcing and collection on behalf of YBL) are required to 
get a certification from the Indian Institute of Banking & 
Finance (IIBF) within 9 months of their association with 
YES BANK. In addition to general banking and technical 
aspects, this IIBF module also includes a section on 
behavioural aspects 
Responsible repayment and collection practices: 
	y
Customers are provided with a detailed repayment 
schedule at the time of loan disbursement, along with a 
loan card which is updated at the time of collection 
	y
Collection is undertaken only at a designated place 
(centre) for the ease of customers 
	y
Any deviation from the collection date, non updation of 
loan card, behavioural issues and other service issues can 
be reported by the customer on the toll free grievance 
redressal number (which is shared at the time of CGT, 
GRT, is also mentioned on the repayment schedule and 
displayed in the BC branch) 
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
145
Grievance Redressal: 
	y
In order to provide timely redressal of customer 
grievances at no extra cost and given that most of the 
Bank’s microfinance customers are located in rural, hard 
to reach areas, the Bank has introduced a “Missed Call 
Facility” for customers to register their grievances 
	y
Missed calls made by customers are responded to through 
a callback in the customer’s vernacular language, wherein 
the customer may comfortably explain his/her complaints 
or grievances. The Missed Call number is prominently 
displayed at BC branches and on the Loan Card given 
to the borrowers 
	y
Additionally, BCBO being a fixed point outlet, additional 
options of Grievance Redressal are also provided to the 
customers. Customers may register their complaints 
through the existing YES TOUCH grievance channels (for 
example: calling up the contact centre at 1800 1200). 
The Grievance Redressal posters in local languages are 
prominently displayed at the BCBO outlets to guide the 
customers in this regard. For customers who wish to 
submit any complaint in written form at the outlet, can 
do so through the complaint registers maintained at the 
BC banking outlets. All BCBOs are also equipped with a 
separate Complaint/Suggestion Box
Social Finance
YES BANK is committed to contributing to India’s Sustainable 
Developmental Goals by channelising finances to support 
critical sectors that contribute significantly to on-ground 
positive impact and growth.
Supporting agriculture value-chains
The Bank’s Agribusiness Product Management vertical, 
closely interacts with Food and Agri clients to create 
customised lending propositions for the agri value chain 
participants, including farmers, SMEs and corporates. 
It facilitates in building of banking opportunities in the agri 
value chain through suitable financial products, while also 
mitigating the credit risk. The team is also responsible for 
ensuring that the Bank meets the regulatory Priority Sector 
Lending (PSL) norms, in collaboration with the other Business 
Units that generate PSL assets. Financing against pledge 
of agri commodities in warehouses (warehouse receipt 
financing) is one of its key offering. 
	y
The Bank has created a granular portfolio against the 
pledging of agri commodities, while ensuring adequate 
risk mitigation
	y
A specialised team closely monitors commodity pledge 
financing portfolio and mitigates inherent risks through 
mark-to-market of commodity prices and in-depth data 
analysis using various tools and techniques
	y
The end-to-end process is carried out on digital platforms 
to ensure faster customer service and superior experience
SME Financing
India’s SMEs contribute to nearly one-third of the country’s 
GDP through their domestic and international commerce 
and are a key focus area for the Bank. The Bank reported 
` 34,022 crore in disbursement to the SME segment in 
FY 2024-25. The Bank continues to develop targeted green 
financing products for SMEs including offering loans to 
SMEs for the adoption of solar panels (including roof top), 
financing equipment manufacturers of effluent treatment 
and sewage treatment plants and supporting the electric 
vehicle ecosystem by financing auto ancillaries and charging 
infrastructure players. As at March 31, 2025, the Bank’s SME 
financing advances stood at ` 43,651 crore.
Affordable Housing
Affordable housing is a critical sector to enable India’s 
socio-economic development. To address the grave 
shortage in affordable housing, the government has 
already taken various initiatives including “Housing for All”. 
Most of the organised lenders require standard documented 
income proof thus making it difficult for this section 
of the society to avail a home loan. Understanding 
their challenges, YES BANK decided to take a step forward 
to help people fulfil their dreams and launched YES 
KHUSHI Home Loans in May 2016, as a step towards 
social responsibility by serving the underserved/neglected 
segment of the society & meeting their financial needs. 
YES KHUSHI home loans is primarily targeted towards 
the Economically Weaker Section and Low Income Group 
segments which may have formal, semi-formal or informal 
income documents and are looking for financial assistance 
to buy or construct their first home. The Bank’s target 
customers majorly include small traders & shopkeepers, 
maids, teachers, tutors, nurses, ward boys, sales executives, 
cashiers in malls, employees of private security agencies, 
bus drivers, amongst others, who may not have formal 
income documents and instead receive income/salary in cash. 
As at March 31, 2025, the Bank’s Khushi (Affordable) Home 
loans portfolio stood at ~ ` 7,398.6 crore and nearly 47,578 
customers have been extended loans under the Bank’s 
affordable housing loan programme.
146
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
The Bank has institutionalised Net Promoter Score (NPS) as 
a key metric to drive superior service experience, customer 
loyalty and advocacy, across its various customer channels. 
The SE unit also implements the Bank’s comprehensive, 
3-Level Grievance Redressal Mechanism with oversight from 
the Bank’s executive-level Standing Committee on Customer 
Service and the Customer Service Committee of the Board.
Customer experience measurement 
The Bank strongly believes in integrating suggestions and 
feedback from its customers into its products, operations 
and approach. Towards this, the Bank has set up a holistic 
mechanism for measuring customer experience across touch 
points, gathering feedback and distilling customer insights. 
The Bank’s Service Excellence unit captures the Voice of the 
Customer (VOC) and Customer Scoring through transaction 
and engagement feedback, and by assessing performance 
across key service drivers. Over the years, the Bank has 
strengthened its customer experience measurement process 
by investing in digital platforms, making it real-time and 
based on contextual conversations with customers. 
Responsible selling practices 
YES BANK is committed to following safe, ethical and 
responsible selling practices that focus on safeguarding 
the interests of its customers and ensuring that customers 
are well-informed about the Bank’s products, terms and 
conditions, interest rates, service charges and practices for 
safe usage. The Bank has adopted a Bank-wide Employee 
Code of Conduct which outlines ethical guidelines within which 
all YES BANKers are expected to operate in their dealings with 
customers and other stakeholders. Product appropriateness 
and suitability are crucial requirements of the Bank’s Code, 
whereby executives are restricted from mis-selling or 
withholding information about the Bank’s products and are 
responsible to ensure that product recommendations are 
based on the customer’s needs, financial understanding, 
and capacity for risk acceptance. Violation of the Bank’s 
product appropriateness and suitability requirements are 
considered acts of misconduct and may invite disciplinary 
Responsible Customer Relations 
As a customer-centric Bank, YES BANK has built a culture that is focussed on delivering quality customer service 
with empathy and ownership. The Bank leverages state-of-the-art technology to enhance customer delight 
through a three‑pronged strategy comprising customer experience, innovation and quality assurance. As one of 
its most critical stakeholder groups, the Bank values the views and feedback of its customers and has set up a 
dedicated Service Excellence (SE) unit that captures the Voice of the Customer (VOC) and undertakes Customer 
Scoring through transaction and engagement feedback, utilising digital platforms, and assessing performance 
across key service drivers. 
Net Promoter Score (NPS) 
The Bank has institutionalised Net Promoter Score (NPS) 
as a key metric to drive superior service experience, 
customer loyalty and advocacy, across its various channels. 
NPS is a metric for measuring customer experience and 
is a predictor of customer loyalty. It has been adopted 
by several global organisations to improve customer 
experience across products and services. NPS is calculated 
by subtracting the percentage of customers who are 
Detractors (i.e. customer rating between 0 and 6) from 
the percentage who are Promoters (i.e. customer rating 
9 or 10). Continuous focus and commitment to customer 
experience has resulted in reduction in Detractors and an 
increase in Promoters resulting in improved Net Promoter 
Scores across channels. The Bank’s Net Promoter Score 
for FY 2024-25 stood at 74 (an improvement over last 
year’s NPS of 70).
Along 
with 
measuring 
NPS, 
the 
Bank 
has 
established a robust Detractor Management process 
which includes service recovery of Detractors, 
close 
looping 
customer 
feedback, 
win 
back 
initiatives to retain Customers, and further collaboration 
with the Promoters. NPS trends, Consumer insights 
(VOC), Detractor Analysis are reviewed periodically with 
respective stakeholders across channels and various 
improvement initiatives across People, Process and 
Technology are undertaken to provide superior banking 
experience to customers.
0
1
2
3
4
5
9
10
7
8
6
Net Promoter Score
Net Promoter Score
Net Promoter Score
=
-
Detractors
Passives
Promoters
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
147
actions. The Bank’s Board-level Customer Service Committee 
provides oversight over the Bank’s product approval 
process with a view on suitability and appropriateness and 
also reviews the appropriateness of products to different 
customer segments. 
The Bank has also adopted a Board-approved Debt 
Collection Policy that highlights its commitment to follow 
fair and lawful practices, and to ensure its customers are 
treated with respect, courtesy, fairness and transparency, in 
processes related to recovery or repossession of a security. 
Other initiatives: 
	y
The Bank has set up a dedicated “Secure Banking” 
section on its website to educate customers on the safe 
and secure ways of using digital payments/channels 
	y
The Bank also sends periodic advisories via email or 
SMS to inform customers on safety practices 
	y
It also runs periodic campaigns such as the ‘Say YES 
to Safe Online Banking’ integrated campaign designed 
to spread awareness about cybersecurity and which 
was extensively promoted through online and offline 
channels, social media platforms, D2C emailers, YES TV 
in branches as well as on residential display properties 
	y
Customers are provided with complete information 
about the Bank’s products including terms and 
conditions; schedule of charges applicable for various 
products/services; channels through which services 
are rendered including branch lists/online channels; 
provision for applying to various products online; 
and the Bank’s grievance redressal mechanisms 
available for customers 
	y
Rural customers are informed about responsible 
practices in loan usage and repayment and provided 
a 'Missed Call Facility' to register their grievances 
at no extra cost
Performance on customer service is also integrated into 
employee performance appraisal, which in turn is linked 
with employee remuneration. In order to adhere to the best 
practices in advertising, the Bank voluntarily complies with 
the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) Code for 
self-regulation of advertising content in India. The Bank 
does not have any non-compliance with regulations and/ 
or voluntary codes, concerning marketing communications, 
including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship 
for FY 2024-25.
Responsible usage of its product and services
The Bank undertakes a number of initiatives to 
promote safe and responsible usage of its product and 
services. To ensure supervision of all its collection and 
repurchase agencies and the executives associated 
with them, the Bank mandates compliance with the 
following requirements: 
	y
Signed declaration by executives as having read and 
understood the Code of Conduct (COC) while generating 
digital ID card
	y
Undergoing a mandatory 100-hour training and 
certification by the Indian Institute of Banking and 
Finance (IIBF) covering basic principles of banking, 
recent trends in retail and e-Banking, communication 
skills, interpersonal skills, code of ethics laid down by 
RBI, amongst others 
	y
Updating the executives on recent circulars issued by 
RBI to be followed during customer interactions 
	y
Regular reiteration on COC, repossession COC, 
advisory on agency and customer visit, agency penalty, 
guidelines on customer interaction during collection 
follow-up and attempt intensity per account 
	y
Evaluation of agency’s performance through vendor 
performance report by the collections manager on 
a monthly basis 
148
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Grievance redressal 
YES BANK has instituted a comprehensive Grievance 
Redressal Mechanism (GRM) to ensure responsive, 
fair, expeditious and customer-centric query/complaint 
management procedures for all its customers. The GRM is 
in line with the Bank’s Board-approved Grievance Redressal 
Policy, the implementation of which is overseen by the 
executive-level, Standing Committee on Customer Service 
and the Customer Service Committee of the Board. 
The Bank has instituted a 3-Level Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism through which customers can register their 
grievance by visiting the Bank’s Branch, calling its call centre 
or writing to YES Touch for any query/request/complaint. 
To ensure timely resolution of customer complaints, all 
complaints are logged into the Bank’s Customer Relationship 
Management (CRM) system and each CRM issue type 
is provided a system defined Turnaround Time (TAT). 
As mandated by the Reserve Bank of India, YES BANK has 
implemented a mechanism of Internal Ombudsman who 
is charged with independently reviewing any customer 
complaints which are fully or partially denied by the Bank. 
On the wholesale side, the Bank has a comprehensive 
service infrastructure for its corporate clients. In addition to 
relationship and product sales teams, corporate servicing is 
focussed through: 
	y
Corporate Service Delivery (CSD) Branches which take 
care of operations and in-person contact-based services 
	y
Priority Service Relationship Managers (PSRM) who 
are allocated to high transactions, business volume 
customers, as a single point of contact, access and 
attention 
	y
The Bank also has a dedicated email ID and Virtual 
Contact Centre for receiving, record keeping and resolving 
customer service issues. All customer service issues are 
tracked and monitored for suitable redressal with due 
oversight from the Bank’s senior management
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
149
Key aspects of YES BANK’s Digital Banking approach
	y
Offering a comprehensive suite of digital solutions
Driven by rapid advancements in technology, digitalisation 
is becoming a key differentiator for customer retention and 
service delivery in the banking sector. The Bank continues 
to develop and enhance customer digital journeys across 
sales, service and operations. The Bank has revamped 
digital journeys across its product categories and 
created an omni-channel experience for its customers 
by launching seamless and intuitive account opening 
platforms, advanced mobile banking with emerging 
super app functionalities and Application Programming 
Interface (API) Banking
	y
Fostering a digitally proficient ecosystem
Building its digital market leadership and becoming a 
relationship banker to the new-age economy is one of 
the core pillars of YES BANK's vision. The Bank has built 
a robust technological and operational architecture for 
plug-and-play FinTech partner integration and a strong 
platform architecture for seamless payment solutions to 
government, corporate, start-ups and SMEs. The Bank has 
enhanced its digital lending capabilities and contributed 
to the expansion of digital public infrastructure with an 
aim to refine its client offerings and contribute to the 
growth of its digital franchise. Alongside building in-house 
competencies & capabilities, the Bank has identified 
partners to complement its solutions and scale its reach
YES BANK's key areas of intervention in the digital 
ecosystem
FinTech: Enabling Digital Payment rails within third-party 
payment service providers such as PhonePe, Paytm, 
AmazonPay, Super Money and Cred
Payment Switches and Platforms for online & offline 
payments: Enabling payment switching and processing 
capabilities for the digital ecosystem by utilising 
APIs and Tech-Stack
BigTech/LendingTech/WealthTech and InsureTech: 
Providing easy KYC processing and payment/collection 
systems by enabling APIs for end customers
BankingTech: Leveraging India’s Digital Public 
Infrastructure (DPI) Tech-Stack to support compliant 
banking services by organisations
OpenBanking/Aggregation: Empowering FinTech partners 
with compliant banking & payment/collection services for 
their customers
PayTech: Facilitating the integration of APIs within the 
Tech-Stacks of organisations
Digital innovations to enhance customer experience
YES BANK continues to maintain a laser-sharp focus on fostering innovation and leveraging technological 
developments to enhance the banking experience for its customers. It has adopted a holistic approach towards 
going digital and has integrated this strategy across its banking ecosystem. Leveraging its robust technological 
infrastructure, the Bank has consistently gained higher market share in new-age digital payment platforms, 
including NACH, IMPS, NEFT, AePS and UPI. The Bank has been working on building new digital journeys for an 
engaging, seamless experience for the customers across the products of the Bank. In FY 2024-25, YES BANK 
became one of the first Indian Banks to support Non-Bank Payment System Operators to offer Central Bank 
Digital Currency (CBDC) wallets to the customers on their consumer facing applications.
150
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Digital Payments
YES BANK continues to be a preferred Banker to Digital India with its best-in-class technology, API stack and dominant 
leadership in digital payments. The Bank processes ~1 in 3 digital payment transaction in India and continues to enhance its 
market leadership across platforms.
Unified Payment Interface 
(UPI)
In FY 2024-25, Payee PSP transactions 
(Merchant or Business Collections on 
UPI) volume has witnessed Y-O-Y growth 
of 134% and Payer PSP transactions 
(Consumer Payments on UPI) volume 
has witnessed Y-O-Y growth of 49%. 
The Bank processed 10,573 crore Payee 
PSP transactions and 6,215 crore Payer 
PSP transactions. The Bank managed 
the migration of the merchant collection 
business of Paytm and generated an 
additional average monthly throughput 
value of ` 65,000 crore.
As a result of these initiatives, the Bank 
currently in its capacity of Payment 
Service Provider (PSP) supports 
approximately one in every two merchant 
collections and one in every three 
consumer payments on UPI.
Aadhaar Enabled 
Payment Scheme (AePS)
In FY 2024-25, AePS, witnessed 
a Y-O-Y growth of 11.91% in 
transaction volume and 8.21% in 
transaction value, as the Bank 
processed a total transaction value 
of ` 92,105 crore. Overall, the Bank 
processed 37.9 crore transactions 
through AePS with a market 
share of 39.21%*
MCTC  
(Travel Cards) 
Transactions witnessed Y-O-Y growth of 8% in terms of load value and 
6% growth in terms of spend value. The year's exit load value stands at 
USD 159.70 million (approx. ` 1,357 crore) and spends value stands at 
USD 135.66 million (approx. ` 1,153 crore) for FY 2024-25.
Internet Payment Gateway 
(IPG) 
IPG transactions witnessed 
Y-O-Y growth of 150% in 
terms of value in FY 2024-25. 
The Bank processed 2.36 crore 
transactions with an overall 
value of ` 61,142 crore in  
FY 2024-25, increasing its 
market share from 3.03%  
to 4.3%
* Market share for entire FY 2024-25 basis NPCI data
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
151
Digital Channels
The Bank continues to accelerate its diversified franchise across customer segments by building end-to-end digital journeys for 
seamless customer acquisition, servicing and cross-sell opportunities. With access to over 238 unique service journeys across its 
multi-pronged delivery channels, the Bank aims to enhance customer experience while strengthening organisational efficiency 
and profitability.
YES ROBOT
The Bank’s comprehensive, 
secure, AI-enabled Personal 
Banking Assistant for customers, 
offering its services on the Bank’s 
website and WhatsApp 
IRIS by YES BANK
The Bank’s mobile banking 
application, allows users to bank 
anytime, anywhere with 150+ 
services available in a simple, 
convenient, and secure manner. 
Iris is a Direct-to-Consumer mobile 
platform for customer lifecycle 
management. In FY 2024-25, the 
Bank enabled the digital journey 
for MCTC (Travel Cards) issuance 
and life cycle management through 
IRIS. The Bank also launched the 
functionality of sending money 
abroad via digital channels under 
the Liberalised Remittance Scheme 
and created customer stickiness 
through the launch of Personal 
Finance Management module on 
the application
YES PAY Hub
The Bank’s mobile platform for 
SME/MSME customers who 
wish to digitise their collections’ 
business on-the-go
WhatsApp Banking
The Bank’s digital channel 
for banking on-the-go 
for YES BANK customers. 
Marking an industry-first, the 
Bank in FY 2024-25,  
introduced Government schemes 
(APY, PMJJBY & PMSBY) on 
WhatsApp Banking
YES PAY NEXT
The Bank’s digital payments 
application enabling seamless 
UPI payments for open market 
customers. Bank offers basic to 
advance UPI features such as 
UPI Lite, payments via RuPay 
Credit Card on UPI, mandate 
management, cardless cash 
withdrawal etc. In addition, the 
Bank also offers value-added 
services such as mobile/DTH 
recharges, bill payments, 
gift vouchers etc. 
YES PAY Biz
YES ONLINE
The Bank’s merchant 
collection application 
enabling merchants to 
collect payments from 
customers using UPI, 
CBDC services and avail 
digital services like instant 
settlement, etc.
The Bank’s internet banking 
platform offers a user-friendly, 
interactive banking experience 
to its customers across 
Liabilities, Assets, Cards and 
Wealth Management segments 
in a seamless manner. In  
FY 2024-25, the Bank enabled 
credit card cross-sell offerings 
on digital channels covering 
transactions to EMI, quick loan 
and express loan
YES BANK Digital Rupee
The Bank’s Central Bank 
Digital Currency (CBDC) 
mobile application
152
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Driving Growth through API Banking and Strategic Partner Programmes
In an increasingly digital economy, banks must adopt innovative strategies to stay competitive, enhance customer experiences, 
and unlock new revenue streams. One of the most transformative opportunities lies in leveraging API banking and building 
robust partner programmes. These tools enable the Bank to integrate with Fintechs, corporates, and third-party platforms, 
turning the Bank into a core component of a broader digital ecosystem.
Digital Onboarding 
YES BANK's advanced digital onboarding platform delivers 
a frictionless experience – combining security, agility and 
personalisation to onboard liabilities, assets and credit card 
customers with ease. Powered by advanced technology 
solutions, the journey experience is designed to serve 
both Do-It-Yourself (DIY) as well as Assisted onboarding 
preferences of customers. 
The focus extends to improving customer journeys to ensure 
faster activation of digitally onboarded CASA accounts. 
Today, 72% of digitally opened Savings Accounts are activated 
instantly and 62% of digitally sourced Current Accounts are 
activated within 4 hours. YES BANK ensures that the faster 
turn-around-time do not compromise on the onboarding 
checks and controls, by strengthening customer due diligence 
processes and leveraging smart tech solutions for improved 
onboarding risk management. 
In FY 2024-25, more than 95% of the Bank’s liability-side 
customer onboarding was processed digitally with 
enablers including co-sourcing of Insurance with Savings 
Account and co-sourcing of Loans with Current Account 
onboarding for enhanced cross-sell and expanding 
wallet share. FY 2024-25 also witnessed YES BANK 
pioneering comprehensive digital onboarding for Companies 
and LLPs, and revolutionising choice with automated 
product recommender.
In response to the evolving regulatory guidelines and 
changing customer behavior, YES BANK has entered into 
strategic partnerships with FinTech companies to offer 
a neo-banking experience without the need for physical 
branches. In FY 2024-25, the Bank collaborated with a range 
of new-age FinTechs, including ‘Appreciate’, ‘Curie Money’, 
‘Finvasia’, ‘PayTM’, ‘Kiwi’, ‘Rio’, and ‘Kreditpe’, to expand its 
digital banking offerings. Through this platform, the Bank now 
provides a comprehensive suite of services such as savings 
and current accounts, digital payments, embedded finance 
solutions, and other banking services. These partnerships 
have enabled the Bank to extend its reach to new customer 
segments, deliver a differentiated banking experience, and 
build stronger customer loyalty. Through a controlled roll-out 
and proactive monitoring, the Bank successfully onboarded 
approximately one lakh customers under this initiative, in this 
financial year.
Strategic Vision: The 
Bank’s growth strategy 
focusses on transitioning 
from a traditional banking 
model to a platform-based 
ecosystem, powered 
by open and secure 
APIs. This allows for 
the seamless exchange 
of financial services, 
enabling the Bank to:
a.	 Expand reach 
beyond own channels
b.	 Foster innovation 
through developer and 
partner collaboration
c.	 Offer embedded 
finance solutions
API Banking Framework: 
The Bank has developed 
a secure and scalable 
API banking platform 
that supports key 
functionalities, including:
a.	 Account Information 
Services (AIS): Real-time 
access to balances, 
transactions, and 
account metadata
b.	 Payment Initiation 
Services (PIS): Instant 
payments and collections 
via direct API calls
c.	 Card Controls (CS): 
Management of 
debit and credit card 
controls & services
d.	 Onboarding and KYC 
APIs: Streamlined 
partner and 
customer onboarding
Partner Programme 
Structure: The Bank’s 
Banking-as-a-Service 
(BaaS) Partner Programme 
is designed for:
a.	 Fintechs and Neobanks: 
Co-creating digital 
products and leveraging 
the Bank's licence 
and infrastructure
b.	 Developers and 
Startups: Accessing 
our APIs to build new 
financial experiences. 
The Bank has already 
progressed with 
FinTechs like Appreciate, 
Curie Money, Finvasia, 
Kiwi, KreditPe, etc.
Monetisation & 
Revenue Model: API 
banking unlocks diverse 
monetisation avenues:
a.	 Transaction-based 
pricing (e.g., Per 
transaction or Per 
request charges)
b.	 Revenue-sharing with 
partners (e.g., on loans, 
cards, or subscriptions)
c.	 Platform fees for 
premium services 
(e.g., white-label 
banking solutions)
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
153
Information Security - Governance 
With the proliferation of digital banking services and the 
increasing sophistication of cyber threats, the Bank’s 
preparedness to safeguard its data and information systems 
is a strategic area for review and monitoring. 
	y
The Bank has instituted a well-defined governance 
structure for information security and data protection. 
It has constituted an Information Security Unit led by the 
Chief Information Security Officer, and adopted a Board-
approved Information Security Policy
	y
A management-level committee, Security Council, with 
cross-functional representation, meets on a quarterly 
basis to review security implementation across the Bank 
and provide guidance to the information security function
	y
Information Security Risk is monitored and reviewed as 
a standalone risk by the Security Council on an overall 
basis, and which is also further reviewed by the Fraud & 
Suspicious Transaction Monitoring Committee
	y
The Bank’s Internal Audit Department (IAD) provides 
an independent and objective assurance of the Bank’s 
Information Security system
	y
The Board-level Risk Management Committee monitors 
information and cyber security related risks as part of 
the Bank’s overall risk profile and provides guidance and 
direction on information security
	y
The Bank has also constituted a Board-level IT Strategy 
Committee, chaired by a Director with 30 years of 
specialised knowledge in information technology. The 
IT Strategy Committee approves and oversees the 
implementation of the Bank’s Cyber Security Policy and 
the Bank’s Cyber Crisis Management Plan
	y
The Bank has also adopted a robust information security 
management system certified as per the requirements of 
the global information security standard ISO 27001:2022 
and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard 
(PCI DSS). The implementation of the Bank’s Information 
Security Policies is independently audited by an 
external third-party auditor for its adherence to the 
ISO 27001:2022 Information Security Management System
Information Security - Policy 
The Bank has instituted a robust Information Security Policy, 
outlining its commitment ‘to protect its information and 
information systems in order to protect its staff, customers 
data and partners, to fulfil its mandate, to ensure business 
continuity, to protect confidentiality, integrity and availability 
of the BANK’s information, and to comply with the BANK’s 
applicable legal and regulatory requirements’, covering the 
following key elements:
	y
Setting 
up, 
maintaining, 
continually 
monitoring, 
and 
improving 
an 
effective 
Information 
Security 
Management System based on security frameworks and 
regulatory guidelines
	y
Orderly and efficient execution of operations through 
strict adherence to defined security policies and practices 
ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and availability of 
the information under its control, thereby delivering 
assurance to all stakeholders
	y
Effective monitoring and responding to information 
security threats, ensuring that all suspected breaches and 
incidents of information security are reported, logged, 
investigated and appropriately responded
	y
Defining 
and 
establishing 
individual 
roles 
and 
responsibilities for IT users, system administrators and 
employees and other relevant stakeholders to protect 
customer data and business
	y
Establishing specific security-policies, standards and 
procedures, covering multiple domains within the 
Information Security Policy and other related policies 
for holistic implementation of Information Security 
Management System. The Bank maintains stringent 
information 
security 
requirements 
for 
third-party 
partners, which are enforced through contractual 
obligations 
and 
periodic 
assessments, 
ensuring 
alignment with the Bank's internal standards and 
regulatory expectations
	y
Raising awareness of security risks relating to information 
and IT infrastructure amongst employees, to sensitise 
them around sophisticated social engineering attacks
Data Security & Privacy
Advancements in digital financial technologies over the last decade have not only helped expand the reach of financial services 
but also significantly altered the way in which consumers interact with banking services. With majority of banking services 
now being delivered online and through digital channels, securing the integrity of its IT systems, preventing information and 
cybersecurity incidents, safeguarding sensitive financial data, and ensuring heightened customer privacy are key priority 
areas at YES BANK.
154
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Training and awareness building 
	y
Defending the Bank’s information systems is a 
responsibility of every YES BANKer and the Bank 
strategically invests in employee training and awareness 
programmes to enhance cybersecurity posture and 
ensure staff adherence to security protocols
	y
The Bank also performs simulated phishing drills to 
check the awareness of its employees and contract staff 
with targeted trainings for staff who fall prey to such 
phishing simulations
	y
Going beyond its employees, the Bank also rolls out regular 
awareness campaigns to build awareness about cyber 
security amongst its consultants, vendors, customers, 
and other stakeholders, educating them about emerging 
cyber security threats, and how to safely and securely use 
the Bank’s digital platforms
	y
In FY 2024-25, the Bank conducted trainings on Payment 
Card Industry Data Security Standard; Cloud Security 
training; Secure Coding Practices and General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR) training
Escalation Process
	y
‘Cyber Saathi’ is the Bank's in-house email remediator 
tool integrated with Outlook, enabling employees to 
report suspicious emails with a single click. By using the 
Cyber Saathi button, users can escalate potential threats, 
incidents, or vulnerabilities directly to the security team 
for prompt investigation and response
Business Continuity
	y
The Bank’s Business Continuity Plan Policy includes a 
Cyber Crisis Management Plan which deals with the types 
of cyber incidents, policies, actions and responsibilities 
for a coordinated, approach to prepare for rapid 
identification, information exchange, response, and 
remediation to mitigate and recover from malicious cyber 
related incidents impacting critical business functions 
and processes of the Bank
Robust information security management system 
	y
By prioritising data protection and information security, 
the Bank aims to foster customer confidence, maintain 
regulatory compliance, and mitigate financial and 
reputational risks associated with data breaches 
or cyberattacks
	y
The Bank’s ISO 27001:2022 information security 
management system is geared to safeguard its systems, 
networks, and applications from cyber threats, including 
malware, phishing attacks, and insider threats
	y
To mitigate risks and protect the Bank’s IT assets against 
potential breaches, the Bank employs various security 
controls such as firewalls, intrusion detection systems, 
multi-factor authentication, and regular security audits. 
The Bank also complies with all required regulations, 
including the RBI’s guidelines on cybersecurity and data 
protection, which mandate the implementation of robust 
data security frameworks and encryption standards
	y
Committing to achieve the highest benchmarks of 
Information Security, the Bank also conducts third 
party vulnerability analysis of its Information Security 
Management System. In FY 2024-25, the Bank received 
25 complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy 
from outside parties and 3 complaints from regulatory 
bodies. All complaints except 2 were resolved as at 
March 31, 2025 and the same will be resolved within 
stipulated timelines1
	y
YES BANK has adopted a risk-based approach and follows 
a “defence-in-depth” security architecture to protect its 
information systems against cyber-attacks. To manage 
cyber security risk, the Bank has adopted a Cyber Security 
Resilient framework based on four key pillars – Protect, 
Detect, Respond and Recover. The Bank has established 
a 24x7 security operations centre (SOC) to monitor cyber 
risks, which keeps vigil on suspicious network traffic 
and events to detect any anomalies, and helps respond 
to potential incidents, in a timely manner. The Bank also 
subscribes to various threat intelligence services that 
help identify malicious indicator of compromise (IOCs) 
and block them as a proactive approach to prevent 
potential attacks
	y
Continuous monitoring, incident response plans, and 
collaboration with industry stakeholders further bolsters 
the Bank’s resilience against evolving threats. The Bank 
has completed Digital Forensics Readiness Assessment 
to ensure that all relevant logs are captured, in case of 
any forensics investigation. The Bank has also completed 
Cloud Security Assessment to assist in building a 
framework for Cloud security
Privacy 
	y
YES BANK recognises the importance of safeguarding 
its customers' personal and financial information. In 
today's digital age, data privacy is not just a regulatory 
requirement but a cornerstone of the Bank’s commitment 
to trust and security. The Bank’s policies related to data 
security & privacy are based on principles of transparency, 
security, control, and compliance. To adhere to these 
principles, the Bank follows practices like data encryption, 
regular audits, employee training, and third-party 
management, amongst others. The Bank is committed 
to maintaining the confidentiality, integrity, and security 
of its customers’ personal information, ensuring they can 
bank with confidence
1 GRI 418-1
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
155
Supplier Base
In FY 2024-25, the Bank transacted with over 5,326+ suppliers 
for provision of goods and services across all its offices and 
branches. The Bank has formed strategic relationships with 
eminent Indian and global companies, however, significant 
portion of transactions and procurements are done through 
domestic vendors. As the Bank is spread across the country, it 
also procures from local vendors for localised consumption of 
products and services. 
Governance and risk management 
The Bank has established a clearly defined risk management 
framework for its suppliers, based on the risk profile of the 
vendor and item category. In order to mitigate the risks 
for the Bank, control and governance parameters have 
been constructed, and are implemented and reviewed on 
a periodic basis. Additionally, the Bank has implemented 
Vendor Performance Evaluation Framework, wherein periodic 
vendor performance reviews are conducted based on vendor 
category. The Bank has also put in place processes to ensure 
Vendor Redundancy/Business Continuity Planning (BCP) for 
critical spend categories. In addition to assessing vendors’ 
credibility, capability and cost to deliver, YES BANK has 
instituted well-established vendor guidelines, outlining its 
vendor selection criteria in line with its strategic goals and 
in compliance with the law. This has been further enhanced 
with the introduction of SAP Ariba e-Sourcing Platform 
which has improved fairness and transparency in sourcing 
processes. While the e-sourcing platform has already 
become an integral part of its sourcing process, the Bank is 
continually looking to enhance the institutionalisation of the 
implemented system-based workflows. As part of the Bank’s 
stated objective and commitment to implementing 
best practices in corporate governance, the Bank has a 
Whistle-blower portal – the 'Corporate Whistle-blower 
Initiative' (CWI), which is an independent online reporting 
service aimed at facilitating secure and confidential 
communication of any concerns faced by its vendors to the 
designated and independent Whistle-blower Committee 
constituted by the Bank.
ESG Supplier Code
As India’s first banking signatory to the UN Global Compact, 
YES BANK continues to abide by the 10 principles of the 
Compact encompassing human rights, labour, environment, 
Integrating ESG in the Bank’s Value Chain
1
YES BANK’s large and diverse supplier base of over 15,250+ large, medium, and small suppliers are integral to 
the vitality of its business and ecosystem. The Bank has set up a Strategic Procurement Unit (SPU) staffed with 
executives, skilled in responsible sourcing practices across categories, functions and domains. The Bank’s SPU 
has adopted a robust, decentralised procurement model which aims to strike the right balance between cost, 
agility and governance in its procurement practices.
and anti-corruption. The Bank uses these principles as 
a foundation for its sustainable supply chain practices. 
The Bank has instituted a Supplier Code of Conduct, based 
on benchmark Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
parameters, defining its commitment to environmental, 
health and safety regulations; local employment and labour 
laws; human rights including elimination of forced labour, child 
labour and discrimination; national and international antitrust 
and trade control regulations; anti-corruption, anti-bribery 
and anti-competitive trade practices; and norms related to 
data privacy and conflict of interest, amongst others.
Through its Supplier Code, which forms part of its 
business agreements and contracts, the Bank ensures 
that its suppliers support its sustainability agenda; comply 
with applicable laws; and adhere to globally recognised 
ESG standards. There were no incidents/violations 
related to corruption that led to terminations/non-renewal of 
contracts during the year.
Sustainable sourcing 
The Bank continues to enhance its sustainable sourcing 
practices and proactively identifies opportunities to adopt 
innovative sustainable products and solutions in its business 
activities. In order to achieve its net zero by 2030 target, 
the Bank began sourcing renewable energy to power its 
facilities. Currently, three of the Bank’s offices (YES BANK 
House, YES Fintech Center - Airoli and YES BANK R-Tech 
park - Goregaon), along with 50 of the Bank’s 78 Branches 
in Mumbai have been switched to renewables. The Bank 
continues to explore the most cost-effective mechanisms 
to procure renewable energy including options such as 
open access and Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) with 
renewable energy producers, along with subscribing to 
Green Power Tariff programmes. To enhance its energy 
efficiency, the Bank has completely migrated all its facilities 
from conventional fixtures to light-emitting diode (LED) 
lighting, across India. The Bank has also eliminated 
the use of printed flexes for its promotional activities 
and switched to digital screens at many of its facilities. 
Over the years, YES BANK has eliminated the use and 
procurement of single-use plastics and also switched to 
procuring 100% recycled paper (A4) for internal operational 
use through a centralised stationary management system.
1 GRI 2-6
156
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
YES BANK recognises that its environmental and social 
impacts are not limited to its own operations and extend 
further to encompass the impacts of its broader upstream 
and downstream value chain partners. The Bank has over 
the years, adopted a phased approach to integrating ESG 
considerations into its value chain, assessing its impacts, and 
improving its value chain related disclosures. 
	y
In 2016, the Bank adopted a Sustainable Supply Chain 
Code of Conduct (now, ESG Supplier Code) based on the 
10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which 
now forms part of its business agreements and contracts
	y
In FY 2022-23, the Bank began engaging with its strategic 
suppliers to build awareness and preparedness on 
ESG-related issues
	y
In FY 2023-24, the Bank conducted awareness building 
webinars on its ESG Supplier Code and undertook surveys 
to assess ESG preparedness of strategic suppliers 
(targeting vendors representing nearly 60% of the Bank’s 
procurement-led spends)
Value-Chain Engagement Programme FY 2024-25
In FY 2024-25, the Bank rolled out an extensive Value-Chain 
Engagement Programme, guided by SEBI’s Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) and 
BRSR Core Frameworks, including the requirement for top 
250 listed entities (by market capitalisation), on a voluntary 
basis, to extend ESG disclosures to their top upstream 
and downstream partners, individually comprising 2% or 
more of the listed entity's purchases and sales (by value) 
respectively. Through the programme, the Bank carried out 
targeted environmental & social assessments of its top value 
chain partners and undertook a comprehensive preparatory 
exercise for reporting as per SEBI’s ESG Disclosure for value 
chain directive.   
Key aspects of the Value-Chain Engagement Programme 
	y
Survey: To facilitate the assessment, a survey containing 
questions aligned with BRSR and BRSR Core metrics was 
developed and rolled out to all targeted VCPs
	y
Capacity building sessions: A series of structured training 
sessions were conducted with the VCPs, covering ESG 
fundamentals, India’s ESG regulatory landscape, BRSR 
principles, and specific requirements under the BRSR 
CORE indicators. VCPs were provided detailed guidance 
and resources to begin or enhance their ESG measurement 
and reporting journey
	y
Data validation: On submission of survey responses, data 
received was validated and verified through triangulation, 
leveraging annual reports and other documents available 
in public domain. Whereever applicable, supporting 
evidence was used to cross-check and confirm the 
accuracy of reported metrics
Coverage of the Value-Chain Engagement Programme 
	y
The Value-Chain Engagement Programme was rolled out 
to top upstream value chain partners (VCPs), representing 
approximately 33.43% of the Bank’s total purchases by 
value in FY 2024-25 (including 5 VCPs that individually 
comprised 2% or more of the Bank’s total purchases by 
value in FY 2024-25)
Activity undertaken in  
FY 2024-25
Upstream Value Chain 
Partners covered
(Based on their share of 
Bank’s total purchases 
by value in FY 2024-25)
ESG capacity building sessions
22.38%
Assessments for health and safety 
practices and working conditions
15.88%
Assessments for child labour and 
sexual harassment 
15.88%
Assessments for forced/involuntary 
labour, Discrimination at workplace, 
and Wages
14.73%
Assessments for environmental 
impacts
9.23%
Preparatory exercise for reporting as 
per SEBI’s ESG Disclosure for value 
chain directive   
33.43%
•	 No downstream value chain partner individually comprised 
2% or more of the Bank’s total sales purchases by value in 
FY 2024-25; and hence were not included in the Value-Chain 
Engagement Programme 
•	 The boundary of the value chain was restricted to ‘entities’ 
to align with the ‘Guidance Note for Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting Format’ published by SEBI in 2021
Value chain ESG assessments and disclosures for FY 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
157
Insights & Challenges
The Bank’s preparatory exercise for reporting as per 
SEBI’s ESG Disclosure for value chain directive offered 
several meaningful insights into VCP readiness, while also 
highlighting critical challenges need to be addressed in order 
to mainstream ESG Disclosures for Value Chain:
	y
Limited ESG readiness across value chain partners: 
Many vendors, especially in the services sector, have yet 
to embed tracking of ESG metrics into their operations. 
Metrics such as Scope 1 and 2 emissions, water usage, 
and waste generation were often unavailable, owing 
either to operations from shared facilities or limited 
prioritisation of environmental performance. This reflects 
a broader trend across smaller enterprises where ESG is 
still emerging as a strategic agenda
	y
Inconsistent and fragmented data quality: Where 
data was available, it often lacked supporting evidence 
or diverged significantly from industry benchmark 
databases. These inconsistencies limit the reliability and 
comparability of disclosures, underscoring the need for 
stronger data management processes and awareness at 
the supplier level
	y
Data consolidation and estimation practices: Due to 
limited guidance on aggregating ESG data across VCPs 
for reporting in a singular format, methods such weighted 
averages had to be applied to compound metrics (for ex. 
energy intensity, water intensity), based on each VCPs’ 
spend share, in order to maintain consistency between 
compound and absolute metrics  
	y
Data Privacy and reporting timelines: Confidentiality 
concerns posed a significant barrier to data sharing by 
VCPs, particularly for data pertaining to the reporting 
financial year. In many cases, ESG data is disclosed only 
after the publication of annual reports or after the first 
quarter of the following financial year, making alignment 
with YES BANK’s annual reporting cycle a challenge
	y
Comparability of Information: Variations in level of 
participation from VCPs, number of responses received 
for each indicator, and differences in spend shares made 
it difficult to draw consistent insights. New VCPs entering 
the top spend bracket in one financial year and older 
ones exiting the scope in the next financial year, limited 
the viability of like-for-like comparisons or drawing 
trend-level insights
Roadmap for value chain disclosures 
YES BANK is committed to scaling and deepening its 
Value-Chain Engagement Programme. The Bank is in the 
process of assimilating the learnings from its preparatory 
exercise and shaping its roadmap for enhancing the data 
quality of its ESG disclosures for value chain. The Bank plans to 
evaluate and undertake a number of measures towards this, 
including expanding training and awareness building amongst 
its VCPs, enhancing participation of partners, integrating 
incentives for disclosure and performance improvement 
in procurement processes, amongst others. Given the 
challenges and constraints pertaining to the quality of data 
received from VCPs, the Bank has deferred the publication 
of its ESG Disclosures for Value Chain. The Bank, however, 
aims to use the insights gained from the ESG data gathered 
from its VCPs, to deepen its understanding of its indirect ESG 
impacts and design corrective actions, where necessary, to 
minimise the negative impacts of its supply chain. 
158
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Employability training for underprivileged youth
	y
Recognising the demographic dividend of India, the 
Bank, through YES Foundation, has undertaken skilling 
programmes, 
providing 
market-oriented 
job 
skills 
to underprivileged youth and ensuring at least 70% 
placement of the trained youth. Enabling livelihood and 
skill development has fostered systemic change in the 
society, inspiring the youth to participate in social and 
economic transformation of the country
	y
In FY 2024-25, 5,000 youth received skills training. In 
addition to this, soft skills like communicative English, 
basic computers, mock interviews, resume writing, 
personality development and confidence building were 
also provided to the trainees. Learning Management 
Systems and supplementing classroom learning with self-
paced online learning was also encouraged. Sessions from 
industry experts played an important role in providing 
realistic insights and practical tips to benefit the trainees
Training farmers and women in entrepreneurship and 
income enhancement 
	y
Agricultural development in India is uneven, with several 
states facing pronounced disparities. Rising cultivation 
costs, inadequate price support, and limited market 
access have compounded farmers' challenges. Besides 
overuse of chemicals, environmental threats, and neglect 
of soil health have further exacerbated food insecurity 
and livelihood concerns. Limited knowledge of innovative 
agricultural practices and challenges in accessing water 
for irrigation throughout the year has prompted a 
significant portion of the population to engage in seasonal 
migration. Women and artisans are also susceptible to 
cycle of economic vulnerability and need specific data 
privacy interventions encompassing skill enhancement 
and market linkages
	y
This initiative focusses on enhancing the income of farmers 
through sustainable agricultural practices and improved 
access to water. Through this initiative, YES Foundation 
also works with rural women and artisans around nano 
enterprise development which has not only led to income 
enhancement but also brought intangible benefits, like 
empowerment and breaking gender role stereotypes
Supporting employability and entrepreneurship through CSR
1 
YES BANK, through its social development arm, YES Foundation, actively engages with communities to 
understand their unique needs and collaborates on projects that create positive impact. This community-centric 
approach ensures the Bank’s CSR initiatives are relevant and sustainable. The Bank has undertaken a target 
of catalysing employment and entrepreneurship opportunities for over 100,000 beneficiaries, including 
25,000 youth and 75,000 farmers, women and artisans by 2026, while retaining a focus on environment 
sustainability. The Bank has made steady headway towards realising its CSR commitment to and has reached 
over 68,000 youth and farmers, as at March 31, 2025.
	y
The Bank through YES Foundation, works with small 
and marginalised farmers across 4 states to promote 
sustainable livelihood by combining traditional and 
scientific methods. The Bank strives to strengthen rural 
economies by enhancing income generation opportunities 
through farming extensions, agricultural inputs and 
promotion of nano enterprises. In FY 2024-25, 15,000 
farmers and women enhanced their income through 
interventions in climate-resilient farming and irrigation 
access, entrepreneurship development trainings and 
market linkages. The work in watershed development has 
also ushered a newfound hope for a lot of farmers and 
reversed migration of youth in the region
Agroforestry Project: Fighting climate change while 
Improving farmer income
	y
Climate change induced erratic rainfall and extreme 
weather events like cyclones, floods, drought and pest 
attacks are leading to declining agricultural yields. 
Agrarian and tribal communities, already struggling 
land degradation and uncertain prices are expected to 
be the worst impacted by climate change, with their 
incomes estimated to decline by up to 25%. Some of the 
areas grapple with a spectrum of socio-economic and 
environmental adversities, from erratic rainfall patterns 
and water scarcity to land degradation and diminishing 
agricultural productivity
	y
To address the challenges posed by climate change and to 
supplement farmers with an additional source of income, 
in FY 2023-24, the Bank through YES Foundation, 
undertook an agroforestry project, with a target to 
plant 1,000,000 trees by 2028, on farmers' lands, 
across India. This initiative continues to play a critical 
role in enhancing green cover while also supporting 
sustainable livelihoods of farmers. The project is 
designed to respond strategically to climate-related 
challenges by introducing sustainable solutions and 
offering comprehensive support to farming communities. 
By incorporating native tree plantation and adopting 
innovative agricultural practices, the project aims to 
bolster climate resilience amongst farming communities. 
In FY 2024-25, more than 200,000 trees were 
1 GRI 413-1, GRI 413-2
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
159
planted on farmers' land and 
geotagged, through this project. 
A total of 400,000 trees have 
been planted, under the Bank’s 
agroforestry initiative, since its 
inception in FY 2023-24.
Employee Volunteering
	y
YES 
BANK 
firmly 
believes 
that 
employee 
volunteering 
opportunities 
offers 
two-fold 
benefits – it fosters positive 
workplace culture and enhances 
skills of employees by involving 
them in tasks that differ from their 
regular 
responsibilities. 
Backed 
by 
the 
employee 
volunteering 
policy, 
YES 
BANK 
employees 
are 
encouraged 
to 
participate 
in skills-based volunteering. So 
far, the Bank employees have 
volunteered to conduct sessions 
on financial literacy, build capacity 
of 
NGOs 
through 
consultative 
approach, 
plant 
trees, 
identify 
potential scholars for a scholarship 
programme, strengthen prototype 
idea in a social hackathon and deliver 
work-readiness module to trainees. 
Over 16,000 volunteering hours 
were contributed in FY 2024-25. 
Additionally, YES BANK employees 
have been contributing towards the 
Payroll Giving Programme for YES 
Foundation and have generously 
participated 
in 
crowdfunding 
campaigns to address emergency 
medical needs of people within the 
Bank's sphere of influence.
(100% of Bank’s operations are covered 
through 
its 
implemented 
local* 
community engagement and development 
programmes. The Bank’s employability 
and entrepreneurship programmes include 
processes for stakeholder engagement 
with the community, consultations with 
local authorities, small and marginal farmer 
groups, local panchayat, village development 
committees 
as 
well 
as 
community 
volunteers, as part of the programme’s 
implementation design. The Bank does not 
undertake any social impact assessments 
of its financial inclusion and community 
development initiatives)
*The Bank's local operations refer to its 
operations within India
Impact Statements from Beneficiaries
Trina's journey has been an arduous 
one, being a single mother raising 
her 
four-year-old 
daughter. 
Driven by the will to build a better 
life for her daughter, Trina enrolled 
in the “Customer Sales and Service” 
course at the skilling centre 
supported by YES Foundation. 
Although she was not familiar with 
corporate life, Trina took a leap of 
faith and pursued training in the BFSI 
sector. The support from her faculty 
helped build her confidence and she 
diligently worked to learn the domain 
and soft skills taught at the centre. 
With guidance and counselling, 
she secured a placement as Digital 
Customer Specialist at mPokket 
Chimadi Ben, a small-scale farmer 
from 
Jalkheda 
village, 
faced 
challenges with traditional crops due 
to low yields and income instability. 
She sought a sustainable option 
to improve her family's livelihood 
M Nagender, a farmer from 
Kodakandla village, Siddipet district, 
Telangana, faced many challenges 
in sustaining regular flow of income 
since he depended solely on 
agriculture. Through the support 
of agroforestry project, Nagender 
received 3,000 guava trees to plant 
on his 4-acre land. These trees will 
potentially boost his income by ` 2-3 
lakh, providing supplemental income 
and a secured future.
Employability training for underprivileged youth
Financial Services at a starting salary 
of ` 14,000 per month. She now feels 
in control of her life and feels hopeful 
for what the future holds.
Agroforestry Project: Fighting climate change while Improving farmer income
and decided to try millet cultivation, 
a resilient crop suited to her land 
and resources. With guidance from 
agricultural extension programmes, 
Chimadi learned about millet 
cultivation. She received training in 
improved planting techniques, soil 
preparation, and crop management, 
which enabled to optimise her 
half-acre plot for a high-yield millet 
harvest. This season, Chimadi's hard 
work and new farming techniques 
paid off. She achieved a significant 
yield of 1,400 kg of millet, which she 
sold at an average rate of ` 25 per kg, 
earning ` 35,000/- from the crop.
Training farmers and women in entrepreneurship and income enhancement
160
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Equal Opportunity Policy: The Bank has instituted an Equal 
Opportunity policy that prevents discrimination on the 
grounds of age, colour, disability, marital status, nationality, 
race, religion, sex, and sexual orientation, and aims to treat 
all the employees and job applicants, equally. The Bank’s 
Equal Opportunity policy can be accessed here: https://
www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=eop.pdf
Prevention of Sexual Harassment: In line with “The Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act & Rules 2013”, the Bank has instituted a 
policy on ‘Prevention & Prohibition of Sexual Harassment at 
Workplace’. The policy provides for the prevention of sexual 
harassment at the workplace, protection of women, and quick 
redressal of their complaints. The Bank has constituted an 
executive-level Internal Committee to address complaint(s) 
on sexual harassment. The Bank’s POSH policy can be 
accessed here: https://www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=policy_
regarding_prevention_prohibition_of_sexual_harassment_
at_workplace.pdf 
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Policy: YES BANK 
has instituted a Bank-wide OHS Policy to emphasise its 
commitment to providing a safe work environment to all 
its personnel (including employees, consultants, contract 
staff), customers, visitors and other stakeholders in order to 
protect their health and ensure safety and well-being within 
the Bank’s premises. The Bank’s OHS policy can be accessed 
here: https://www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=ybl_occupational_
health_and_safety_policy.pdf 
Total Rewards Policy: YES BANK has instituted a Total 
Rewards policy for attracting and retaining top-class 
talent, creating and reinforcing a strong meritocracy-based 
performance culture and reinforcing employee behaviours 
aligned with organisational values
Employee Volunteering Policy: The Bank has instituted 
an Employee Volunteering Policy to encourage employees 
to participate in the Bank’s corporate social responsibility 
initiatives. Through this policy, employees are enabled to 
access paid time-off to volunteer for social causes.
Board-approved Financial Inclusion Plan: The Bank has 
developed a Board-approved Financial Inclusion Plan (FIP) 
which outlines the overarching strategy and approach for 
enhancing financial inclusion. The FIP is reviewed by the 
Board on a quarterly basis.
Policy on Collection of Dues and Repossession of Security: 
The Bank has adopted a Board-approved Debt Collection 
Policy that highlights its commitment to follow fair and 
lawful practices, and to ensure its customers are treated with 
respect, courtesy, fairness and transparency, in processes 
related to recovery/repossession of security. The policy can be 
accessed here: https://www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=policy_
dues_and_repossessions.pdf 
Customer Grievance Redressal Policy: YES BANK has adopted 
a Grievance Redressal Policy for handling customer complaints 
and grievances, and to ensure responsive, fair, expeditious 
and customer-centric query/complaint management 
procedures to all external customers. The Customer Service 
Committee of the Board has Board-level oversight, while the 
Standing Committee on Customer Service has management 
level oversight of this policy. The policy can be accessed here: 
https://www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=grievanceredressal_
policy_english.pdf
Bank as a Payment Aggregator – Merchant Onboarding 
Policy*: The Bank has instituted a Bank as a Payment 
Aggregator – Merchant Onboarding Policy, in line with 
RBI guidelines, that delineates the processes and controls 
through which the Bank provides aggregation (collection) 
services for a variety of merchants it enrols under the Bank 
as a Payment Aggregator (PA) Framework. The policy is 
approved by the Board with oversight by the Board-level IT 
Strategy Committee and Customer Service Committee and 
executive-level oversight by the Standing Committee on 
Customer Service.
Policy on Issuance and Operations of Domestic Prepaid 
Instruments*: The Bank has a Board-approved policy on 
Issuance and Operations of Domestic Prepaid Instruments 
which outlines the Bank’s protocols pertaining to prepaid 
instruments issued by the Bank either via digital, physical 
modes and through affiliations with payment networks. 
The implementation of the policy is overseen by the 
Board-level IT Strategy Committee and Customer Service 
Committee with executive-level oversight by the Standing 
Committee on Customer Service.
Privacy Policy: The Bank’s Privacy Policy outlines the nature 
of customer information captured, and how it is used, 
retained, and processed by the Bank. The policy can be 
accessed at: https://www.yesbank.in/privacy-policy
Data Handling Policy#: The Bank has adopted a 
Board-approved Data Handling Policy.
Information Security Policy#: The Bank has adopted a 
Board-approved Information Security Policy.
Cyber Security Policy#: The Bank has adopted a 
Board-approved Cyber Security Policy.
The Bank's Policies pertaining to People and Social Responsibility
*The Bank’s, Bank as a Payment Aggregator – Merchant Onboarding Policy and Policy on Issuance and Operations of Domestic Prepaid 
Instruments are confidential and can be accessed by employees on its intranet
#The Bank’s Data Handling Policy, Information Security Policy and Cyber Security Policy are confidential and can be accessed by employees on 
the Bank’s intranet
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
161
Progress 
on Profitability
Material Topics Covered
M-7
Progress on Profitability
Capitals Impacted
Financial Capital
C-1
162
YES BANK LIMITED
Progress on profitability reflects the Bank’s strategic commitment to building a sustainable, 
scalable franchise that consistently delivers profitable growth anchored in a robust risk 
management culture. In FY 2024-25, the Bank remained focussed on enhancing profitability, 
improving asset quality, and accelerating its transformation into a future-ready organisation. 
The disciplined execution of its Return-on-Assets (RoA) expansion roadmap was underpinned 
by key business levers, including enhanced net-interest income, expanding non-interest income 
and optimising yield on advances by growing the share of RoA-accretive products. The Bank 
also continued to leverage its Mid-corporate, SME and Branch-banking segments as fulcrums 
of growth. These initiatives were complemented by a sharp emphasis on cost efficiency 
and productivity, driven by digitalisation, process automation, and business consolidation. 
Together, these measures are improving Bank’s near-term performance and laying the foundation 
for long-term profitability and resilience.
Focus on Net-interest 
income expansion
Focus on sustained PSL reduction 
and stable, low-cost deposits 
to drive expansion in NIM, RoA 
and profitability
Leveraging expertise in SME and 
Mid-corporate segments
Enabling higher cross-sell, 
ecosystem integration 
and profitability through 
focussed growth in SME and 
Mid-corporate segments
Rationalisation of cost 
structure and improvement in 
Non-interest income
Continued digitalisation, process 
optimisation and consolidation 
to improve cost-efficiency and 
Non-interest income performance
Maximising branch distribution as 
the fulcrum of business
Expanding Branch and BCBO 
network to boost low-cost 
deposit mobilisation
Gaining traction with branch-led 
sourcing of assets and 
fee-based products
Enhancing loan profitability 
through strategic focus on RoA 
accretive products
Focus on RoA-accretive products 
and internal sourcing for enhanced 
portfolio profitability
 
Leveraging digital and 
transaction banking capabilities 
and partnerships
Enhancing scale, efficiency and 
market leadership in digital 
payments through robust digital and 
transaction banking capabilities
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
163
Key Priority Areas and Actions
Key Highlights for FY 2024-25
` 2,406 crore 
full-year net profit, highest since 
reconstruction (up 92.3% Y-O-Y)
13.5%  
CET 1 ratio, indicating sufficiency 
in Capital Adequacy
` 5,857 crore
of Non-Interest Income, up 
14.5% Y-O-Y
0.6% 
RoA for FY 2024-25 as  
compared to 0.3% for FY 2023-24, 
with Q4 FY 2024-25 RoA  
improved to 0.7% (annnualized)
2.4%  
Net Interest Margin, flat 
Y-O-Y
NIL  
shortfall in PSL Compliance
71.3%
Cost to Income Ratio for  
FY 2024-25 as compared to  
74.4% in FY 2023-24; and exited  
Q4 FY 2024-25 with 67.3%
` 8,944 crore
of Net-Interest Income, up 
10.5% Y-O-Y
1.6%  
GNPA ratio and 0.3% NNPA ratio, 
both lower than previous year. Net 
Carrying Value of Security Receipt 
now stands at Nil
Business Lever 1
Focus on Net-interest income expansion
	y
The Bank has taken a number of decisive steps towards 
driving significant improvements in key financial 
indicators, including Net Interest Margins
	y
The Bank’s sustained efforts to address the elevated 
share of mandated deposits—arising from accumulated 
Priority Sector Lending (PSL) shortfalls and limited 
capacity to purchase PSL certificates in the post-
reconstruction period—have led to a reduction in 
mandated deposits to 8.7% of total assets as at March 31, 
2025, down from approximately 11% a year earlier
	y
Another factor contributing to the expansion of net 
income is the reduction in the cost of deposits. Consistent 
efforts have been made to lower deposit cost by 
focussing on granular, high-quality & low-cost deposits. 
As a result, the cost of deposits has remained stable at 
6.0% - 6.1% for the past six consecutive quarters
Business Lever 2
Rationalisation of cost structure and improvement in 
Non-interest income 
The Bank maintains a strong emphasis on cost management 
and operational efficiencies by leveraging several 
key strategies:
	y
Digital Capabilities: Utilising advanced digital tools and 
technologies to streamline operations, reduce manual 
processes, and enhance customer experiences. This 
includes automation, data analytics, and digital platforms 
that improve efficiency and reduce costs
	y
Process and Productivity Improvement: Continuously 
refining and optimising business processes to eliminate 
inefficiencies, reduce waste, and enhance productivity
	y
Business 
Consolidation: 
Strategically 
consolidating 
business units and operations to achieve economies 
of scale, reduce redundancies, and improve overall 
operational efficiency
Through these efforts, Bank's Cost-to-Income Ratio 
improved to 71.3% in FY 2024-25 as compared to 74.4% for 
FY 2023-24, despite an increase of 6.2% in staff cost and 7.4% 
in total operating expenses, as compared to FY 2023-24. 
Bank exited the year with Cost-to-Income Ratio of 67.3% 
in Q4 FY 2024-25.
164
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Business Lever 3
Enhancing loan profitability through strategic focus on RoA-Accretive products
	y
As the Bank's Retail Assets portfolio has significantly 
scaled up over the last few years (CAGR of 18.1% between 
FY 2019-20 and FY 2024-25), there is significant focus 
now on improving the profitability profile through 
optimisation of the product mix and the sourcing mix
	y
From the bouquet of retail products that the Bank currently 
offers, certain set of products have been identified as 
RoA-Accretive and there has been a concerted effort 
towards increasing the mix of these products in the 
Bank’s disbursements. As a result, the proportion of 
RoA accretive products in the Bank’s disbursements has 
improved from 35% in FY 2022-23 to 42% in FY 2024-25, 
while broadly maintaining the product risk profile
	y
On the same lines, the Bank has made significant 
strategic interventions to improve the internal sourcing of 
assets through branches and internal channels, reducing 
the cost of acquisition of these channels in comparison to 
DSA (Direct Sales Agents). On account of these efforts, 
the internal sourcing mix of Retail Assets has improved 
from 35% in FY 2021-22 to 50% in FY 2024-25
Business Lever 4
Leveraging expertise in SME and Mid-corporate segments
	y
YES BANK, since its inception, has been catering to the 
needs of SMEs (Small and Medium Enterprises) and 
has developed a niche expertise in these SME and Mid 
corporate segments. This strong competitive advantage 
is driven through deep segment expertise, relationships 
and 'solutioning' approach in dealing with customers
	y
As a result of this, the Bank has been able to maintain 
an extended track record of superior profitability in 
these customer segments, while maintaining pristine 
asset quality through various business cycles. The Bank 
67%
3%
20%
10%
Sustainable Product Mix
Growing Fee Income
642
515
351
FY25
FY24
FY23
1.4%
1.6%
1.6%
SME Fees
As % of Advances
SME Segment: High quality & well-diversified granular book with best-in-class asset quality
(All figures in ` crore)
45%
15%
15%
6%
5%
14%
Book Split by Ticket Size 
(count of customers)
	 0-0.5 crore
	 0.5-1 crore
	 1-2 crore
	 2-5 crore
	 5-10 crore
	 > 10 crore
	 Working Capital & Term Loan
	 Channel Finance
	 Commodity Finance
	 Non Fund Facilities
is executing a successful strategy of disproportionately 
higher growth in these segments (22% Y-O-Y growth) 
in comparison to the overall loan growth of the Bank. It 
has further resulted in improvement of Bank’s overall 
profitability through cross-sell and higher wallet share
	y
Importantly, as a part of these segments, the Bank is 
well entrenched into the ‘new-age ecosystem’, through 
bespoke digital solutions, incubation and networking 
platforms, and has acquired a significant market share 
among 'Unicorns' and 'Soonicorns' in India
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
165
Steady growth in Balances in the Mid Corporate Segment (All figures in ` crore)
Mid Corporate Segment: Strong competitive advantage aided by relationships, expertise and 'solutioning'
Q4FY24
Q1FY25
Q2FY25
Q3FY25
Q4FY25
Deposits
41,905
39,602
34,309 36,765
34,393
Advances
21.8% Y-O-Y
10.4% Y-O-Y
27.0% Y-O-Y
24,084
22,363
21,641 21,759
21,818
18,607
17,532
15,506 16,437
14,656
Non-Fund
Strong source of Fee Income
(All figures in ` crore)
Mid Corporate Fees
As % of Advances
564
513
401
FY25
FY24
FY23
1.7%
1.7%
1.5%
Strong Liability 
Franchise: CA Ratio 
at ~24%
Strong coverage: 
presence across  
37 key  
geographies
Granular portfolio  
with a focus on  
Knowledge  
Banking
Well entrenched in new-age 
ecosystem: Be-spoke 
digital solutions, incubation/
networking platforms
Business Lever 5
Maximising branch distribution as the fulcrum of business
	y
YES BANK, is leveraging its existing and growing network of branches and BCBOs (Business Correspondent Banking Outlets) 
to offer full spectrum of products, including deposits, assets and fee products (third-party products such as insurance, 
mutual funds etc.). The Bank’s Branch-banking vertical has significantly outperformed the banking industry in terms of 
generation of deposits and low-cost CASA deposits. This has aided the Bank in delivering strong liability growth over the 
last few years, despite industry-wide challenges
	y
In addition, with rising penetration of the Retail Asset offerings across the branch network and the addition in front-line 
sales staff in branches, Bank's Retail Assets sourcing and distribution of fee-generating products through branch channels 
has improved over the years, thereby reducing the overall cost of acquisition for the Bank and improving the profitability 
profile of the branches
1. 	 Productivity Gains within Existing & 
Expanding Franchise
100.0
100.0
FY23
116.1
120.7
FY24
130.0
139.9
FY25
Outperformance in liability growth largely led by
Deposits per Branch
Deposits per Employee
(Indexed to 100 for FY 2022-23)
2.	 Customer Acquisition
CASA A/Cs Acquisition - 
Monthly Avg. 
109.6
127.8
FY23
FY24
FY25
110.4
3.	 Rise in New Acquisition 
Value (NAV)
CASA EOP NAV - Monthly Avg. 
128
FY23
FY24
FY25
100
153
(in 000 Accounts)
(Indexed to 100 for FY 2022-23)
166
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
6.0%
7.6%
CASA Y-O-Y Growth
27.7%
35.7%
10.9%
13.5%
Total Deposits Y-O-Y Growth
14.6%
21.8%
Branch-banking is driving Bank's outperformance v/s Industry
1 Data Source: RBI (BSR)-2 – Deposits with SCBs
YBL Branch Banking
YBL
Private Banks1
Industry1
22.5%1
YBL
Private 
Banks
Industry
56.2%
22.3%1
YBL Branch
 Banking
58.4%
Y-O-Y Growth of CASA and Total Deposits (Q3FY24-Q3FY25)
Incremental CASA Ratio: Q3FY24-Q3FY25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
167
Business Lever 6
Leveraging digital and transaction banking capabilities and partnerships
	y
YES BANK's technology platform has invariably been best-in-class across the industry, which has aided the Bank in 
pioneering cutting-edge products & technologies and holding superior market share in these spaces
	y
YES BANK processes nearly 1 in every 3 digital payment transactions in India, a capability driven through a blend of 
distinctive expertise, integrated strategy and multi-pronged delivery channels aimed at enhancing scale along with better 
efficiency and profitability
Distinctive Capabilities
Market Leadership : YES BANK processes ~1 in  
3 Digital Payment transaction in India
UPI Payments  
#1 Payee PSP 
(56.9% market 
share) #2 Payer PSP 
(33.4% market share)
#1 Acquiring AePS 
Bank: Powering 
39.21%1 of all AePS 
transactions via ~765 
K+ partner outlets2
50+ partners 
integrated 
for real-time 
leads mobilisation
#2 in NEFT  
with ~99.0%
success rate & 
17.3%¹ market share
'IRIS' Retail  
Super App with  
240+ features
97% Credit  
Cards sourced  
digitally 4
'IRIS Biz' - Super 
App for Businesses 
with 100+ features
96% Individual 
SA & 95% eligible 
CA accounts 
sourced digitally
1,500+ API  
stack  
developed
1 Industry Source: RBI Payment System Indicators & NPCI 
3 BaaS: Banking as Service, BaaP: Banking as Product
2 As at March 31, 2025
4 Including Assisted Journeys
Future-ready for both BaaS & BaaP Models 3
168
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Economic value generated, distributed and retained1
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Remarks
` in ‘000
` in ‘000
Economic Value Generated
Revenues
367,517,732 
327,002,371
P&L Account, Annual Report 2024-25
TOTAL
367,517,732 
327,002,371
A
Economic Value Distributed
Operating costs#
65,388,543
60,483,800
Schedule 16 – Operating Expenses, P&L 
Account, Annual Report 2024-25
Employee wages and benefits
40,084,035
37,742,776
Schedule 16 – Operating Expenses, P&L 
Account, Annual Report 2024-25
Payments to providers of capital
219,505,639
194,913,182
Annexure A
Payments to Government**
640,870
3,766,056
Cashflow Statement FY 2024-25
Community Investments
-
-
As per our books of accounts
TOTAL
325,619,087
296,905,814
B
Economic Value Retained*
41,898,645
30,096,557
A-B
Annexure A
Interest on deposits
158,475,898
135,648,191
Schedule 15 – Interest Expended, P&L 
Account, Annual Report 2024-25
Interest on RBI/Inter-bank borrowings/Tier I & 
Tier II debt instruments
59,384,936
57,977,557
Schedule 15 – Interest Expended, P&L 
Account, Annual Report 2024-25
Others
1,644,805
1,287,434
Schedule 15 – Interest Expended, P&L 
Account, Annual Report 2024-25
Dividend paid for last year
0
-
P&L Account, Annual Report 2024-25
Payments to providers of capital
219,505,639
194,913,182
* Calculated as per the GRI 201 Standards
# Excluding Employees Wages and Benefits, which has been shown separately
** Includes direct taxes paid to the Government.
To the best of its knowledge, either directly or indirectly, the Bank has not made any monetary contribution/undertaken any spending towards 
any political campaigns or political organisations in FY 2024-25
1 GRI 201-1
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
169
Principles for 
Responsible Banking: 
Portfolio Impact 
Assessment and Targets
170
YES BANK LIMITED
The United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) provide a holistic blueprint for 
building a sustainable society of the future. The SDGs provide the banking sector an opportunity 
to align its business activities and financing to larger societal goals and outcomes, and to ensure 
that financial systems of the future are geared towards sustainable growth.
	y
Scope for Corporate Banking (constituting 42.6% of total advances): 
91% of corporate banking advances were included (due to limitation 
in the tool to 30 ISIC sectors) 
	y
Scope for MSME - (constituting 23.7% of advances): 99% of MSME 
advances (due to limitation in the tool to 30 ISIC sectors) 
	y
Scope for Consumer Banking: All consumer banking product suite 
included liabilities (CASA, FD, other services) and assets (Home 
loans, Vehicle Loans etc). (Retail assets constituted 33.7% of 
total advances) 
Considering the scope, scale of exposure, context and 
relevance in the impact assessment, the Bank has identified 
and prioritised Climate Change and Financial Inclusion as most 
significant/material areas, to pursue a focussed approach 
driven by specific, measurable, actionable, relevant and time 
bound targets, in consultation with top management.
The Bank has established holistic strategies and 
approaches on enhancing positive impacts and reducing 
negative impacts pertaining to Climate Change and 
Financial Inclusion. The Bank has identified significant 
indicators, on which it has initiated performance 
measurement and disclosure and also taken targets, 
where feasible. The Bank has also developed action plans 
to enhance its performance on these indicators.
In 2019, YES BANK along with 32 global Banks and UNEP 
FI, founded the UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banking 
(PRB) – the first global framework for enabling the banking 
sector to align its business to the objectives of the SDGs and 
the Paris Climate Agreement. YES BANK continues to be the 
only Indian Founding signatory amongst 230 global Banks 
that have joined PRB’s call to action. The PRB framework calls 
upon banks to undertake an impact analysis of their portfolios 
in order to assess how their businesses interact with and 
impact the 17 SDGs, and to minimise negative impacts and 
maximise positive impacts of their businesses.
In FY 2021-22, the Bank used the amended UNEP FI PRB 
Portfolio Impact Assessment tool v2, (published on July 16, 
2021), to assess its portfolio. The tool assesses the potential 
impacts of the Bank’s exposure towards various sectors on 
22 key impact categories, derived from core elements of SDGs 
(as defined in the UNEP FI Impact Radar), in the context of 
India’s needs and challenges. These impact categories include 
availability and quality of water, food, education, employment, 
housing, health & sanitation, energy, climate change, resource 
efficiency, waste, information, culture & heritage, mobility, 
air, soil etc. Segment-wise details for the scope of the impact 
assessment is provided subsequently.
Significant
impact 
areas
Alignment 
with national 
priorities
The Bank's 
ambition
Targets developed
Target implementation and progress
Climate
change
Paris 
Agreement,
India’s NDCs
Portfolio 
alignment with 
well below 
2 degree 
scenario, 
striving for 
1.5 degree 
scenario
The Bank has measured 
financed emissions of its 
electricity generation portfolio 
and has developed targets (base 
year FY 2021-22) for reducing 
the sectoral emission intensity 
by 50%, striving for 75% by  
FY 2031-32.
•	 The Bank has reduced emission intensity of its electricity 
generation portfolio by ~39% in FY 2024-25 from the base year of 
FY 2021-22. Emission intensity for FY 2024-25 is well within the 
roadmap to achieve the target. 
	
(For further details please refer to the ‘Financed emission and 
portfolio targets’ section in the report)
Financial
inclusion
National 
Strategy
for Financial
Inclusion
Contribute to 
and further the 
government 
and RBI’s goals 
to expand 
the access 
of financial 
services, 
deeper 
into rural 
underserved 
areas
With a focus on women 
microfinance borrowers, the 
Bank has taken the following 
targets:
•	 To realise 20% Year on 
Year (Y-O-Y) increase in 
the number of women 
beneficiaries till FY 2025-26  
from 7.6 lakh women 
beneficiary in FY 2022-23
•	 To achieve 25% Y-O-Y 
increase in its lending book 
towards women microfinance 
borrowers till FY 2025-26 on 
a baseline of ` 1,495 crore in  
FY 2022-23
•	 In FY 2024-25, the number of women beneficiaries under the 
microfinance portfolio stood at 6.49 lakh, marginally lower than 
6.56 lakh in FY 2023-24. However, the outstanding portfolio to 
women microfinance borrowers witnessed a slight increase to  
` 1,803 crore in FY 2024-25 from ` 1,781 crore in FY 2023-24
•	 The Bank’s progress against set targets faced challenges due 
to industry slowdown and internal technology transitions, 
including the migration of the Loan Origination System and Loan 
Management System. The microfinance sector in India showed 
signs of stress, affecting client acquisition & retention. Rising 
delinquencies along with increased borrower indebtedness has led 
to shrinking of the sector
•	 Despite these challenges, the Bank continues its efforts to 
strengthen its presence in the segment by focussing on expanding 
outreach into untapped geographies of the domestic market 
through the empanelment of new Business Correspondents (BCs). 
Given the evolving industry dynamics, the Bank may revisit its set 
targets to align with prevailing market conditions
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 94-171
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
171
Management Discussion
and Analysis
Executive Summary
MACROECONOMIC AND INDUSTRY OVERVIEW 
Global economic activity remained largely resilient in 2024. 
Gaining confidence on reducing inflation trends and signs 
of slowing growth, led most central banks to resort to rate 
cuts and ease monetary policy during the last fiscal year. 
The onward journey for the global economy is likely to be 
challenging. The global economic order had significantly 
depended on global cooperation, with free trade and 
capital mobility enhancing global productivity and growth. 
This is being reset in a significant way, that may lead to some 
upheavals before new rules emerge. 
Geopolitical tensions and geo-fragmentation have already 
existed over the last few years. Since late January 2025, 
President of United States Mr. Donald Trump had announced 
tariffs on various economies and on specific commodities, 
culminating into his announcement of “reciprocal” levies on 
various countries. Subsequently, tariffs for most countries 
have been put on hold, while various countries work together 
with the US to arrive at a trade deal. With tariff wars 
remaining an evolving space, in April 2025, the International 
Monetary Fund (IMF) has reduced its growth projections for 
the world to 2.8% for 2025, a sharp drop of 0.5% from its 
January 2025 forecasts. 
On the domestic front, the Indian economy remained 
one of the fastest growing economies in the world and 
continued to exhibit strong macroeconomic fundamentals. 
At 6.5% in FY 2024-25, India’s economic growth remains 
far higher than the global growth of 3.3% clocked by the 
world in 2024. On the supply side, real gross value added 
(GVA) expanded by 6.4% Y-O-Y, driven by the agriculture 
and services sectors. The Indian economy did see a 
slow Q2-FY 2024-25 at 5.6% GDP growth on account of 
slowing capital formation due to weak capital spending by 
the government. However, in Q3-FY 2024-25, real GDP 
growth bounced back to 6.4% Y-O-Y and further to 7.4% in 
FY 2024-25, mainly driven by private consumption and fixed 
capital formation. 
While urban demand was relatively sluggish, private 
consumption expenditure was pulled up by a strengthening 
rural demand. Private sector investment activity however 
remained moderate despite good corporate and bank 
balance sheets. Global uncertainties that have a negative 
impact on consumption are likely to keep private sector 
investment activity on the lower side. The Reserve Bank 
of India (RBI) expects growth to be at 6.5% in FY 2025-26, 
while the IMF projects real GDP at 6.3%. A fall in inflation 
is expected to boost real wages and drive domestic 
consumption, alongside the Income Tax cuts effective in 
172
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
FY 2025-26. Further, government capital expenditure, 
projected at ` 11.2 trillion for FY 2025-26, is likely to be 
spread across the year and will boost growth. Support also 
comes from the RBI easing the repo rate (cumulative repo 
cuts amounted to 100 bps between February to June 2025) 
and infusing adequate rupee liquidity. To ensure transmission, 
the RBI has announced a CRR (Cash Reserve Ratio) cut of 100 
bps starting September 2025, that is expected to release 
` 2.5 trillion of liquidity for the banking sector. 
Key Economic Indicators: Pointing towards resiliency
Growth of Index of Industrial Production 
(IIP) (Average of April 2024-March 2025
4.0% 
Manufacturing PMI (March 2025)
58.1
Services PMI (March 2025)
58.5
Passenger Vehicle Sales (FY 2024-25) 
(www.siam.in)
Total sales- 4.3 million 
units (up 2.0% Y-O-Y)
2W Sales (FY 2024-25) 
(www.siam.in)
Total sales- 19.6 million 
units (up 9.1% Y-O-Y)
GST Collection (March 2025)  
(As per GST council)
` 1.96 lakh crore, up 9.9% 
Y-O-Y
Volume of UPI transactions  
(FY 2024-25 ) (NPCI report)
185.9 billion 
transactions, up by 41.7%
Headline CPI inflation reached a peak of 6.2% in October 2024 
and since then been on the downward trajectory, declining 
to 3.3% by March 2025, and further to 3.2% in April 2025, 
following significant declines in food prices. On a YoY basis, 
food inflation peaked at 10.9% in October 2024, but fell 
significantly to 2.7% by March 2025 and further to 1.8% in 
April 2025. On the other hand, despite relatively weaker 
growth conditions, core inflation tended to inch up through 
FY 2024-25, from 3.25% in April 2025 to 4.2% in March 2025, 
on the back of adverse base effect and higher gold prices. 
Headline CPI averaged at 4.6% in FY 2024-25 (5.4% in 
FY 2023-24), while core inflation averaged at 3.6% in 
FY 2024-25 (4.4% in FY 2023-24). 
Consequent to inflation moving within the comfort zone, RBI 
started its rate cutting cycle in February 2025 with a 25-bps 
cut in the repo rate (RBI had held rates stable for a period 
of 24 months) and cut by a further 25 bps during its April 
monetary policy.
RBI also changed its stance to “accommodative” from 
“neutral” at the April 2025 monetary policy meeting. At the 
June 2025 meeting, RBI delivered a large 50 bps cut in the 
policy rate but changed the stance back to “neutral” and 
indicated that the RBI would be data driven and room for 
further monetary easing is limited. 
RBI had also been infusing liquidity through various tools such 
as CRR cuts, OMO, Buy/Sell currency swaps and long-term 
VRR auctions. This corrected for the liquidity deficit that was 
seen in FY 2024-25, due to dollar sales by the RBI to contain 
the depreciation pressure on the INR. In the June 2025 
monetary policy, the RBI announced a CRR cut of 100 bps – in 
4 equal tranches - starting September 2025 that is expected 
to release ` 2.5 trillion to the banking system. This is expected 
to reduce the cost of funds for the banks.
The Indian banking system continues to be stable on the back 
of strong profitability and asset quality, with adequate level of 
liquidity and capital buffers. As per per Reserve Bank of India's 
Financial Stability Report (December 2024), the Return on 
Assets of all Scheduled Commercial Banks (SCB) and Return 
on Equity were reported at decadal highs by September 2024 
at 1.4% and 13.6%, respectively. On the other hand, Gross 
non-performing asset (GNPA) ratio fell to a multi-year low 
of 2.3%, Net Non-Performing Assets (NNPA) ratio was at 
0.5%, while the Provisioning Coverage Ratio (PCR) improved 
to 76.3%. Importantly, RBI’s macro-stress tests show that 
Scheduled Commercial Banks (SCBs) are well capitalised and 
capable of absorbing the most adverse economic shocks even 
without capital infusion. For FY 2024-25, deposit growth of 
SCBs was at 10.7% while non-food credit grew by 11.0%.
Deposit and Credit Positions by end-March 2025
Item
Actuals
Growth
Aggregate deposits of SCBs 
` 225.8 trillon 
Up by 10.7% Y-O-Y
Non-food credit (NFC) 
` 182.4 trillon
Up by 11.0% Y-O-Y
Source: RBI Weekly Statistics Supplement
Services
Personal loans
Source: RBI Financial Stability Report (December 2024)
13.8
8.9
15.9
13.9
19.1
5.8
13.1
12.1
32.6
7.3
18.6
10.4
15.7
7.6
14.8
13.0
Agriculture
Industry
Services
Personal Loans
PSBs
Agriculture
Industry
Services
Personal Loans
PVBs
Agriculture
Industry
Services
Personal Loans
FBs
Agriculture
Industry
Services
Personal Loans
All SCBs
March 23
September 23
March 24
September 24
Percent
55
35
15
-5
-25
Credit Growth of Select Sectors (Y-O-Y)
173
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3000
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
000
-500
NPC (YOY)
Industry (YOY)
Service (YOY)
Feb-16
Feb-17
Feb-18
Feb-19
Feb-20
Feb-21
Feb-22
Feb-23
Feb-24
Feb-25
Source: RBI Weekly Statistics Supplement
The external sector remained strong with a very healthy 
upside to the net services sector inflows, that went up by 16% 
in FY 2024-25. On the other hand, the trade gap was wider 
with imports rising more than exports. CAD/GDP was at 0.6% 
for FY 2024-25. On the other hand, capital flows were at 
USD 17 billion in FY 2024-25, compared to USD 89 billion in 
FY 2023-24, with a sharp slowdown in net FDI and net 
portfolio flows. Foreign portfolio flows have also been 
significantly impacted due to the global uncertainties. 
Foreign Portfolio Investment (FPI) in debt and equity which 
stood at USD 41 billion in FY 2023-24, dropped to USD 2.7 
billion by the end of FY 2024-25. As of July 11, 2025, India’s 
foreign exchange reserves stood at USD 696.7 billion.
After remaining ranged in the initial part of the year, the 
US Dollar (USD) showed some depreciation pressures 
as expectations started forming over the start of the 
monetary policy easing cycle by the US Federal Reserve. 
Intermittent escalation of geopolitical tensions and US 
electoral risks led to some bouts of safe-haven demand. 
However, even after the Fed started easing monetary 
policy in September, US dollar appreciated by 9.1% between 
October 2024 and its peak on January 13, 2025, on 
the back of US “exceptionalism” and anticipated Trump 
policies. USD witnessed depreciation pressures thereafter 
as Germany announced a fiscal package to boost growth 
and fears of “reciprocal” tariff announcements by the US 
administration took over. 
In the first half of FY 2024-25, INR remained broadly 
steady against the USD, being the least volatile among 
the major currencies of the Emerging Market Economies 
(EMEs). INR witnessed depreciation pressures primarily 
due to USD appreciation, FPI outflows, increased global 
economic uncertainty and a widening of the domestic 
trade gap. As the USD depreciated sharply in the last leg of 
FY 2024-25, INR also recovered in March 2025. 
USD/INR ended the year at ` 85.46, after having depreciated 
by 2.5% during the course of FY 2024-25. 
In the following sections, we present an overview of 
YES BANK's performance during FY 2024-25
RETAIL BANKING 
In FY 2024-25, YES BANK had strong growth performance 
in retail deposits, SME advances and calibrated growth in 
Retail Asset advances and continued to provide a full suite of 
personalised and business banking solutions. 
The share of YES BANK's Retail and Branch banking deposits 
stood at 59% of total deposits, while the share of Retail 
Advances stood at the level of 41% of total advances in 
FY 2024-25. The Bank remained focused on improving the 
profitability of its Retail franchise.
In perspective, deposits growth on Y-O-Y basis (FY 2024-25 
vs FY 2023-24) for the industry* stood at 10.4% and for 
private bank’s* at 12%; the Bank registered growth of 6.8% 
and YBL Branch Banking 17.9%. Overall YBL Branch Banking 
led Deposits registered growth of 19.5% CAGR (FY23-FY25) 
versus 12% CAGR in Industry and 16% CAGR for Private Banks.
Average yearly Deposits of the Bank grew 16.0% Y-O-Y, with 
stronger Y-O-Y growth in Current Account deposits at 20.5% 
and Savings Account deposits at 32.1%.
SME advances also registered steady and strong growth in 
funded book of 23.6% on Y-O-Y basis. Further, Retail Asset 
advances had calibrated growth approach for FY 2024-25 
across product and sourcing mix, with the objective of 
profitability improvement and thus registered marginal 
decline of 3.4% Y-O-Y.
*Data Source: RBI (BSR)-2 – Deposits with SCBs and CAGR based on 
Total Bank Deposits
Branch Banking 
YES BANK offers a comprehensive suite of liability and asset 
products to its customers under Branch Banking. The strategic 
focus of Branch Banking vertical remained on the affluent 
including emerging affluent and mass affluent customers, as 
well as on SMEs in the metro cities and urban markets. 
Overall, growth in liability deposits for the Bank was primarily 
driven by a robust 17.9% growth registered in Retail and 
Branch Banking deposits. 
The focus on acquiring high-quality New-to-Bank (NTB) retail 
customers led to a 19% Y-O-Y growth in CASA New Acquisition 
Value (NAV), normalized for comparability.
Growth in the liability book was achieved in the backdrop of: 
	y
System-wide significant liquidity tightening
	y
Sharp rise in interest rates, and 
	y
Heightened competitive intensity in deposits
174
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Branch Banking Fee income also registered a robust 21% 
growth during the year. Significant step-up in Retail Assets 
disbursement through the branch network resulted in internal 
sourcing touching 46% (Q4 FY 2024-25), up from 43% last 
year in similar period. 
During FY 2024-25, YES BANK added 37 new branches and 
expanded its geographical footprint to 1,255 branches and 
235 Business Correspondent Banking Outlets (BCBOs) spread 
across ~900 locations, with 1,331 ATMs and Bunch Note 
Acceptor/Recycler. 
Spectrum Banking 
Spectrum Banking is the Bank’s new-age channel that 
manages the entire customer life cycle across the full suite 
of retail products through virtual modes of telephony, 
chat and email. During the year, this channel engaged with 
over 35 lakh customers virtually.
Spectrum Banking manages:
Customer lifecycle: Acquisition > Onboarding > Relationship 
Management > Customer Value Management > Activation > 
Retention > Service
Retail products: Liabilities, Retail assets, Business banking, 
Credit cards, Merchant, Third-party products
Digital Banking 
Digital Payment System
YES BANK continues to invest in new-age digital technologies 
to offer superior customer experience. 
The Bank has digital journeys for seamless customer 
acquisition, servicing, and cross-sell in place for retail 
customers. Today, 96% of all eligible savings accounts 
(with 72% accounts instantly activated) and 95% of eligible 
current accounts (with 62% accounts activated within 
4 hours) are onboarded through the digital mode. The Bank 
has implemented comprehensive digital onboarding journey 
for Individuals, Sole Proprietors, Companies and LLPs for 
current accounts with an industry first, data backed product 
recommender to Auto fetch profile information from GST for 
KYC validation and right product recommendation in real time 
for new-to-bank current account. 
Further, digital co-origination has been enabled across 
Current and Savings account onboarding, such as co-sourcing 
of 3-in-1 (demat and trading) account, along with savings 
account, co-origination of Savings Account with Current 
Account for sole proprietors in a single journey. 
The Bank has enabled self-onboarding (DIY) with video KYC 
with end-to-end STP journey for digital Savings and Individual 
Current Account opening, as well as digital journey for 
government schemes, like APY and PMJDY. 
There are 238 unique service journeys available on various 
digital applications of the Bank: 
	y
“Iris by YES BANK” - The Bank’s newest digital app 
(135 services) 
	y
YES Online (193 services) 
	y
YES Robot (92 services) 
	y
WhatsApp Banking (68 services) 
Fixed Deposit 
Insurance 
Tax Payments 
Recurring Deposit 
IPOs 
3-in-1 Trading Account 
Credit Card 
Card Upgrades 
Government schemes like 
Atal Pension Yojna, PM 
JJBY and PM SBY
Wealth Management 
(Mutual Funds, 
Investment Accounts, 
Sovereign Gold Bonds) 
Quick Loans 
End-to-end digital customer journeys across DIY / assisted modes available for: 
175
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
To augment its offerings, the Bank continues to partner with 
various FinTechs and corporates. The Bank continues to be 
a leading player in new-age digital payments, including UPI 
(Payer PSP), UPI (Payee PSP), AePS, NEFT, IMPS and NACH at 
33.4%, 56.9%, 39.21%, 17.3%, 10.21%, and 16.3% market share 
in FY 2024-25, respectively. YES BANK processes nearly every 
3rd digital payment transaction in the country (around 16 
billion on a monthly basis). To grow its digital volumes further 
and build resilience, the Bank has implemented cloud-native 
UPI, IMPS processors and alternate AePS processors. 
Over the decade-long journey of YES Money, the Bank has 
onboarded over 7.5 lakh outlets which have been aiding 
customers with simple banking transactions, including 
domestic money transfer and Aadhaar and Micro ATM-based 
cash withdrawals. 
During the year, the Bank launched solutions around new 
Payment Aggregator and Payment Gateway Guidelines (PAPG 
Guidelines), which limits only the payment aggregator (PA) 
licensed holder to participate in aggregation services. It solves 
the collection and payout problems for the network partners 
who do not participate as PA in the ecosystem. Under this 
Bank as a PA (i.e. BAPA), there are 27 partner sellers and 31 
marketplace clients, and they have processed transactions 
valued over ` 3,800 crore and ` 53,000 crore, respectively. 
During the Year, the Bank got authorised by Government 
of India for Direct and Indirect Taxes collection - Goes live 
with seamless GST payment facility for customers as well 
as non-customers.
In March 2025, the Bank launched a seamless customer 
DIY journey for sending money abroad under Liberalised 
Remittance Scheme (LRS) with a seamless process through 
our mobile app IRIS by YES BANK and YES Online. Additionally, 
the Bank also introduced a DIY customer journey for Travel 
Card issuance, control, and currency loading on IRIS by 
YES BANK, supporting 14 currencies and offering card delivery 
to a chosen address. With these innovations, the Bank 
enters an elite list of Indian banks offering digital services 
for LRS and MCTC. 
Programmes 
YES Private 
YES Private is the Bank’s flagship by-invite program designed 
especially for Ultra High Net Worth Individuals (UHNI) who 
have Liabilities balances of ` 3 crore or Total Relationship 
Value of ` 5 crore and above at a family level. The programme 
is thoughtfully curated, bringing together a blend of bespoke 
wealth expertise, full stack banking & enterprise solutions 
and unmatched global lifestyle experiences, backed by a team 
of relationship and product specialists, along with a robust 
service architecture.
Curated client engagement at marquee events across diverse 
lifestyle interests, numerous benefits embedded through the 
World Elite Debit Card are some of the new initiatives under 
the programme. 
During FY 2024-25, the Bank clocked 50% growth in customer 
base in YES Private portfolio.
176
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
YES Prosperity 
YES Prosperity is the Bank’s mass retail programme, offering services for customers’ individual and business banking 
needs. This offers feature-packed exclusive segmented savings account proposition to garner granular deposits from 
segments like salaried, senior citizens, women and regular customers of the Bank. Furthermore, for the business clients, it 
offers current account variants such as Freedom Flexi - a first-of-its-kind five-tier product suite with an auto-upgrade and 
auto-downgrade facility to ensure the right product fit for every stage of the business lifecycle, along with other curated 
segmental offerings.
	y
PRO Max, PRO Plus, PRO 
	y
Women’s Account - YES Essence 
	y
Senior Citizen Account - YES Respect 
	y
Savings Value / Kisan SA 
	y
Minor’s Account - My First YES 
	y
Smart Salary Account - Platinum Pro, Platinum, 
Exclusive, Advantage 
	y
YES Vijay Account - Exclusive, Advantage, 
Pension, Agniveer
	y
YES Honor Account - Platinum, Exclusive
	y
Freedom Flexi five-tier product suite
	y
Merchant Accounts - Easy and Prime
	y
EEFC Accounts
	y
Emerging Markets – Pragati, Pragati Vyapar and Udaan
	y
Special Purpose Accounts – Yes Head Startup, Xtra Gain
Variants offered to Savings Account customers:
Variants offered to Current Account customers:
YES First and YES First Business 
YES First and YES First Business are the Bank’s flagship 
wealth management and business banking programmes, 
curated for affluent customers for their personal and business 
banking needs. These specialised programs are imbibed 
with a comprehensive customer-centric approach and offer 
curated product offerings and services, coupled with a host 
of lifestyle benefits, to provide a delightful experience to the 
customers. The portfolio makes significant contribution to 
our Retail and Branch Banking Liabilities and fees franchise. 
The program propositions have been further enriched by 
adding relevant benefits for eligible customers through the 
lifecycle across multiple consumption categories. 
Key Offerings 
	y
Banking solutions for personal and business needs 
	y
Wealth management
	y
Exquisite lifestyle benefits 
3+ lakh 
Number of customers in YES First and YES First 
Business portfolio
YES Grandeur 
YES Grandeur program was launched in April 2024 to cater 
to the divergent needs of the emerging affluent segment. 
It is a pioneering program offering milestone-led benefits, 
banking privileges and top tier debit card features, designed 
to leverage on the growing demand of this niche demographic 
customer segment.
Key Offerings
	y
Simplified banking and digital solutions
	y
Diverse product suite
	y
Majestic milestone benefits
Since its launch, 60k customers have signed up for 
the program. 
YES Premia 
YES Premia offers segmented solutions to the mass affluent 
segment with an emphasis on making banking seamless 
and enjoyable for the customers. The programme has been 
carefully curated to provide banking solutions complementing 
the lifestyles and expectations of varied customer segments. 
	y
Priority Servicing 
	y
Products and Preferential pricing 
	y
Privileges 
	y
Powerful Digital banking platforms and solutions 
4.7+ lakh 
Number of customers in YES Premia portfolio
177
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NRI Banking 
The NRI Banking programme is a power-packed customised 
offering that provides multiple avenues for Non-Resident 
Indians (NRIs). It helps the NRIs curate and manage 
wealth across product categories through in-person and 
digital fulfilment models. This comprehensive product is 
complemented by a multi-channel servicing capability and 
benefits that extend beyond banking. 
Comprehensive and superior experiential banking services 
for NRIs and Persons of Indian Origin (PIOs):
	y
Banking services: Deposits, Portfolio Investment Scheme 
(PIS), remittances and wealth management products 
along with competitive NRI FX rates 
	y
Liability product suite: Savings, fixed and recurring 
deposit offerings denominated in INR, and fixed deposits 
in eight foreign currencies 
	y
International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) Banking 
Unit (IBU): Offers Savings and Term Deposits to NRIs in 
selected currencies
Debit Cards 
YES BANK offers a complete suite of Debit Card variants across 
all three networks, Mastercard, Visa and RuPay. The Bank has 
card variants across all segments of its customers including 
Mass & Emerging Affluent, Affluent, Private as well as for 
segmented offerings for Women, Salaried Individuals, and 
NRIs, among others. These Debit Cards are designed and 
customised to meet the specific needs of its customers in 
Yes Private, YES First, YES Grandeur, YES Premia and YES 
Prosperity programmes. 
Unique benefits across categories: 
	y
Reward points on spends across domestic and 
international spends
	y
Complimentary lounge access and golf lessons (on 
select Debit Cards) 
	y
Exciting offers on retail categories such as entertainment, 
groceries among others
	y
Insurance cover across purchase protection, accidental 
insurance and lost card liability 
The Bank launched systematic installment payments on its 
debit cards in Jan'25 thereby enabling customers to automate 
their routine monthly payments on their debit cards. 
The Bank has also revamped and launched new card designs 
across its portfolio.
14.3 lakh
No. of Debit Cards added in FY 2024-25 
50.80 lakh
No. of Debit Cards in force
Easing customers’ usage of Debit Cards: 
a)	
Easy access to card settings on Iris by YES BANK and 
Internet Banking, helping customers manage card 
spends and control card security specific parameters.
b)	
Easy access to card settings and Debit Card services 
across WhatsApp Banking/BOT and a dedicated email ID 
for blocking/hot-listing cards in unforeseen situations.
c)	
Allowed to set Debit Card pin of their choice (green pin) 
across YES Online, Iris by YES BANK and ATMs in order 
to promote paperless banking.
Credit Cards 
YES BANK’s Credit Card department is well established for 
prioritising customer satisfaction, offering a diverse range 
of products to cater to customer expectations, a robust 
distribution approach and exceptional customer service, well 
supported by strong risk management systems. The Bank's 
current credit card portfolio consists of 30+ products tailored 
for consumers, small and medium-sized enterprise (SME) and 
commercial segments.
11 lakh Credit  
cards added in  
FY 2024-25 
2.4 million  
Live credit  
cards 
30% Y-O-Y growth  
in outstanding 
balance 
41% Y-O-Y 
growth in credit  
card spends
19% of Consumer  
Credit Card spends 
through UPI route
During the year, the Bank has further scaled on its UPI facility 
offered on RuPay Credit Cards, which now contributes to 19% 
of the Consumer Credit Card spends. This offers an engaging 
proposition to its customers to conduct UPI transactions 
on their Credit Cards. The Bank issued more than 4.7 lakh 
178
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
UPI-enabled Credit Cards in FY 2024-25. With this, a total of 
27% of spends on Credit Cards was made through Cards on 
RuPay network. 
The Bank remains focussed on acquiring its customers from 
the existing liability/asset base. However, as a diversification 
strategy, the Bank has tied up with other partners who have 
large and engaged customer franchisee, that are digital 
savvy and have high propensity for online purchases for 
acquiring Co-brand customers. This strategy helps get a set of 
customers that are not normally available to the bank through 
its existing customer base (location wise and profile wise) 
End-to-end digital journeys in Credit Cards: 
a.	
The Bank’s entirely digital customer onboarding 
platform, coupled with a real-time credit card approval 
process (for eligible applicants), ensures that eligible 
customers receive their Credit Card details digitally 
in its mobile application. Over 95% of new credit card 
approvals in March 2025 were processed digitally. 
b.	
The digital onboarding platform supports multiple 
formats such as DIY, Assisted, Bio-metric and Video KYC. 
c.	
The Bank also introduced an option to choose the card 
network during the journey, thus allowing customers 
more flexibility to opt for their most preferred option.
d.	
All Co-brand Credit Card launches in FY 2024-25 have 
been with an end-to end digital only journey.
Home  
Loans
Commercial  
Vehicle Loans
Personal  
Loans
Education  
Loans
Loans Against  
Property
Affordable  
Home Loans
Construction  
Equipment Loans
Loans Against  
Securities
Business  
Loans
Secured  
Business Loans
Working  
Capital Finance
Car Loans
Auto Loans  Used Car Loans	
Retail Banking products offered under a single roof:
Retail Banking Assets 
The Bank’s customers can select from a wide range of retail 
loan products its offers. The share of a diversified Retail 
Banking assets book across all products stands at 41% in 
FY 2024-25. Retail Banking Assets products are offered 
across 650+ locations through branches and channel partners.
179
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Bank continued to focus on delivering profitable growth 
led by business-mix optimisation towards its higher return 
products. It has entered into financing agreements with 
leading manufacturers of cars and commercial vehicles and 
with construction equipment, thereby enabling access to the 
wholesale and retail businesses of manufacturers and dealers 
across the country. 
The Bank has adopted a strategic approach to drive higher 
share of internal sourcing by positioning branches as the 
fulcrum of growth in order to reduce the cost of acquisition. 
Sourcing contribution through internal channels crossed 50% 
for the first time across retail and rural assets in FY 2024-25 
as against 42% in FY 2023-24.
Key developments: 
	y
Enhancing digital capabilities: The Bank has been 
enhancing its digital capabilities with additional products/
offerings such as ‘Loan in Seconds’ platform as well as 
front-end automation initiatives using YES Robot, to 
provide customers with shorter response time and drive 
higher productivity
	y
Investment in Salesforce: With an eye on future retail-
led growth ambitions backed with strong technology, 
the Bank invested in Salesforce, the world’s leading 
CRM platform, to build a next-generation cloud-based 
loan origination system. This shall facilitate concurrent 
processing integrated with BRE to enable real-time credit 
decisioning and industry-best turnaround time
	y
Increasing digital onboarding: During the year, digital 
loan onboarding powered by Salesforce was made 
live for Home Loans
96%
Consistently maintained collection efficiency
The Bank has a diversified retail asset book built around 
analytics-based collection scorecards, which augments 
performance of the field force and enhances collection 
cost efficiencies. The Bank has also invested in collections 
infrastructure such as New Collection System and additional 
Scorecards to further augment its collection efficiency. 
Rural Banking Assets 
This unit addresses the financial requirements of Indian 
farmers for crop production and ancillary activities through 
Kisan Credit Card loans and Farm Mechanisation loans. 
Key Offerings:
	y
Catering to specific needs of farmers across specialised 
agri clusters through flagship crop loan product under 
different variants 
	y
Handling farm mechanisation needs of progressive 
farmers by financing purchase of tractors, harvesters and 
agri implements 
Widened reach  
through presence  
in 13 states
Active borrower  
base of  
~80,000 farmers
Inclusive & Social Banking 
In line with its commitment towards sustainable ‘inclusive 
growth’ in the rural and semi urban segment, YES BANK has 
always focused on catalytic innovations and key partnerships 
to create and promote viable business models, apart from 
providing ‘access to finance’ to its bottom-of-the-pyramid 
customers. It has a two-pronged strategy involving Inclusive 
& Social Banking (ISB) and Microfinance Institutions Group 
(MFIG) for the implementation of various financial inclusion 
initiatives, albeit in a profitable manner. While the women 
microfinance borrowers are served for loan and other 
insurance requirement through ISB division, the Bank, through 
its IFI business unit provides term loans to Micro-Finance 
Institutions (MFIs) for lending to similar segments. 
Parameters defining the Bank’s reach to the bottom of the 
pyramid customers
Active customer 
base of 
~6.5 lakh women 
Made cumulative 
disbursement of 
` 17,700+ crore
Reached out 
to 40+ lakh 
families (till date)
The Bank also offers optional insurance products which 
includes a customised loan cover life insurance product 
and a new tailored hospital cash product for the rural and 
semi urban segment. These products are aimed at helping 
them reduce out-of-pocket hospitalisation expenses during 
unfortunate times.
Agribusiness Product Management 
Agribusiness Product Management (APM) is the Bank's 
specialised unit, which houses industry and banking 
professionals with relevant domain knowledge and skill 
sets. The team closely interacts with Food and Agri clients 
180
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
to create customised lending propositions for the agri value 
chain participants, including farmers, SMEs and corporates. 
It facilitates in building of banking opportunities in the agri 
value chain through suitable financial products, while also 
mitigating the credit risk. The team is also responsible for 
ensuring that the Bank meets the regulatory Priority Sector 
Lending (PSL) norms, in collaboration with the other Business 
Units that generate PSL assets. Financing against pledge 
of agri commodities in warehouses (warehouse receipt 
financing) is one of its key offering. 
	y
The Bank has created a granular portfolio against the 
pledging of agri commodities, while ensuring adequate 
risk mitigation 
	y
A specialised team closely monitors commodity pledge 
financing portfolio and mitigates inherent risks through 
mark-to-market of commodity prices and in-depth data 
analysis using various tools and techniques 
	y
The end-to-end process is carried out on digital platforms 
to ensure faster customer service and superior experience 
` 2,141 crore
Total Portfolio of Warehouse Receipt Financing 
(As at March 31, 2025)
Merchant Acquiring Services 
YES BANK is one of India's leading providers of Merchant 
Acquiring Services, with best-in-class product suite, backed 
by high service standards and a robust technological 
infrastructure. Merchant Acquisition plays an integral role in 
providing a payments solution to its Current Account holders. 
The segment caters to more than 2.6 lakh merchant 
establishments and has 4.2 lakh payment acceptance 
touchpoints across India. The business saw a 44% growth 
in its merchant base and 27% in spends processed through 
payment acceptance devices for FY 2024-25. 
The Bank has further enhanced digital onboarding capability 
through its merchant onboarding platform. At present more 
than 95% of the merchants are onboarded digitally.
Merchant Acquiring Services offer state-of-the-art 
Android-based point-of-sale (POS) devices, SoftPOS solution, 
same-day and holiday settlements, and an array of other 
value-added services, including SMS Pay, EMI, Dynamic 
Currency Conversions (DCC) and best-in-class solutions for 
QR / UPI payments like QR Standee and QR Soundbox. 
The Bank continues to invest in new products, enhanced 
services and advanced digital processes for this business.
181
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Fintech Partnerships1
YES BANK engages with multiple fintech partners to enable 
the acquisition of incremental new-to-bank (NTB) customers 
across liabilities, assets and credit cards. By collaborating 
with select Fintech Partners, the Bank is building a 
sustainable and scalable low-cost acquisition model. 
Selecting a Fintech Partner is a well-thought-out strategy 
with a segmental-based focus to ensure differentiated 
product offerings and value-creating propositions. 
By leveraging unique propositions with the Fintech Partner’s 
superior UI/UX and a robust application programming 
interface (API)-based technology stack, YES BANK is 
also able to offer and cross-sell the Bank's relevant 
product and services. 
During the year, the Bank partnered with a scaled player in the 
payment ecosystem as the PSP Payments Bank, reflecting the 
inherent strength in the Bank’s capabilities and technology 
infrastructure. This partnership is expected to further aid our 
market share in the digital payment ecosystem, merchant 
acquisition, current account balances and transaction 
banking flow, thereby resulting in further improvement to 
the Fee Income. 
SME Banking 
Small & Micro Enterprises (SME) Banking vertical continues to 
be a key growth engine, recording a strong 23.6% YoY growth 
in FY 2024-25. Key business unit construing SME Banking 
are: MIB (Micro enterprise Banking), SEB (Small Enterprise 
Banking) and MEB (Medium Enterprise Banking) catering to 
the diverse needs of each segment of the MSME pyramid. 
Over FY 2023-24, SME Banking’s contribution to overall 
bank advances has gradually increased from 15.5% to 17.7%, 
highlighting its expanding strategic role within the Bank.
SME Banking offers comprehensive financing solutions 
tailored to the diverse needs of the MSME ecosystem, 
delivered through a network of 1,255 branches and robust 
digital stack, and a dedicated team of Relationship Managers 
and Product Specialists.
Strategic Focus Areas:
	y
Digital Lending Platform (DLP): Launch of DLP has 
significantly transformed the login process for SME 
customers, powered by information available via extant 
Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) including GST, Udhyam, 
IEC, Banking, ITR, Bureau API sets
	y
Iris for Business: Enhanced Customer Experience, through 
smart and intuitive YES Business App providing seamless 
experience for integrated financial management of 
personal and Business Banking accounts, Digital CA 
opening and Overdraft facility
	y
SME Service Desk: Unified Service Desk, which already 
addresses 50+ non-financial customer requests (Stock 
Statement Submission, Bank Statement, other non-
financial statement) has now been upgraded to include 
key financial services such as RTGS/NEFT processing, FD 
booking, and more. This enhancement not only empowers 
customers with a one-stop solution for their banking 
needs, but also releases Relationship Manager bandwidth, 
enabling them to focus on deeper engagement and value-
added interactions.
	y
Launched “PowherUP”, a dedicated initiative to support 
and finance women entrepreneurs in the MSME segment
	y
Portfolio Quality & Risk Management: Proactive 
initiatives focused on early identification and proactive 
management of potential stressed accounts, ensuring 
portfolio health and maintain control over credit cost
	y
Implementation of E-Sign and E-Stamping enabling 
faster, paperless loan execution
Growth-Focused Initiatives:
To accelerate future growth, SME Banking has identified 
high-potential segments and launched targeted 
initiatives such as:
	y
Government Schemes: Strong focus on loans backed by 
Government Guarantee Schemes (CGTMSE, CGSS, etc.)
	y
Digi OD (Unsecured Product): An end-to-end digitally 
enabled unsecured overdraft facility; a high yielding 
product aimed toward driving profitability
	y
SmartFin LOS & LMS: Complete digital solution for 
Supply 
Chain 
Financing 
encompassing 
complete 
Customer lifecycle management from onboarding to 
drawdown management
	y
YES Export – Launch of new product for exporters (up to 
` 15 crore) with the following features:
	y 	 Funding up to ` 10 crore basis charge on current 
assets only
	y 	 Online trade platform
	y 	 Dedicated support from service desk
	y
Project Orion – A data-driven lead generation engine that 
leverages the Bank’s internal customer base to empower 
SME sales teams with qualified leads
This integrated approach, combining digital transformation, 
customer-centric innovation, and data-driven strategies, 
has positioned the SME Banking business as one of the 
fastest-growing and future-ready verticals within the Bank.
1 GRI 2-6
182
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Large Corporates 
YES BANK's Large Corporates segment remains an important 
component of our wholesale banking strategy, delivering 
tailored financial and risk management solutions to India’s 
most prominent companies. Anchored by our philosophy 
of Ecosystem Banking, the segment adopts a holistic 
approach, extending beyond traditional banking relationships 
to serve the broader ecosystem of our clients—including 
their dealers, vendors, and customers. This interconnected 
strategy ensures that we address the diverse needs of large 
corporates, while fostering sustainable growth and deepening 
client relationships.
In FY 2024-25, Large Corporates business unit continued 
to strengthen its market position through client centricity, 
strategic partnerships and robust risk management. 
We focused on enhancing our product suite, streamlining 
processes, and leveraging technology to deliver seamless 
banking experiences.
Our commitment to being a one-stop financial partner is 
reflected in our comprehensive offerings, which include:
	y
Corporate Lending: Financing solutions to support capital 
expenditure, expansion and strategic initiatives
	y
Working Capital Solutions: Customised financing solutions 
to optimise cash flows and support operational efficiency
	y
Trade Finance and Supply Chain Solutions: Facilitating 
seamless transactions across the value chain for clients 
and their ecosystem partners
	y
Treasury 
and 
Forex 
Services: 
Providing 
hedging 
solutions and market insights to manage currency and 
interest rate risks
	y
Transaction Banking: Enabling efficient cash management, 
payments, and collections through digital platforms
	y
Wealth Management and Retail Banking Services: 
Catering to the personal banking needs of promoters 
and employees offering them a bouquet of services 
including 
savings 
accounts, 
credit 
cards, 
salary 
accounts and personal loans through partnership with 
Retail Banking team
WHOLESALE BANKING 
As the Bank accelerates its transformational journey, its strategic focus in maintaining sustainable growth is aimed 
at developing and driving liability franchise and strengthening its asset business, along with strong governance and 
compliance as well as prudent risk management. 
Large Corporates 
International Banking 
Mid-Corporates 
Government Banking 
Indian Financial Institutions
Multinational Corporates 
To further develop these objectives, the Wholesale Banking Group continues to play a key and pivotal role for the Bank, 
serving the below segments: 
The Bank’s Wholesale Banking strategy is to build scale and positioning through new client acquisition, up-tiering 
proposition and cross-selling to cater to the evolving needs of the customers, with a laser focus on Risks & Returns. 
Offering comprehensive client-focussed services across: 
Working 
Capital Finance
Term  
Loans
Project  
Finance
Transaction 
Banking Products
Trade  
Finance
Supply Chain  
Finance
Overseas Financing (via IFSC  
Banking Unit in GIFT City), and  
Liquidity Management Solutions
Cash Management  
Services
Debt Capital Markets, Treasury Services 
(Foreign Exchange Risk Management) and 
Foreign Currency Loans including ECBs
183
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Looking ahead, Large Corporates team is well poised to 
capitalise on emerging opportunities in India’s evolving 
economic landscape. We aim to expand our presence in 
sunrise sectors in alignment with national initiatives such as 
Make in India and the green energy transition, deepen the 
ESG-focused offerings and continue investing in technology 
to deliver frictionless banking experiences. The Large 
Corporates segment remains committed to driving value for 
our clients and stakeholders, reinforcing YES BANK's position 
as a leader in corporate banking while contributing to India’s 
economic growth.
Mid-Corporates 
The Mid Corporates segment focusses on corporates with a 
turnover between ` 100 crore and ` 1,500 crore. The segment 
lives up to its philosophy of supporting local corporates 
by being closer to its customers, developing a thorough 
understanding of their banking needs and delivering tailored 
solutions across the entire spectrum of banking services.
Key pillars of Mid-Corporates segment:
Regional  
presence
Granular asset 
and liability book
Robust risk  
management
Strong digital  
penetration
Structured cash and 
trade solutions
Sustainable  
growth
The Mid Corporate segment is on the path of growth through 
its two-pronged approach of acquiring New-to-Bank (NTB) 
clients and deepening its existing relationships. 
The Mid Corporate team, which currently runs its operations 
from 37 locations pan-India, will continue to build this 
portfolio with a stringent focus on Cross-Sell through 
synergies with Transaction Banking, Digital Banking, Food 
and Agribusiness Strategic Advisory and Research (FASAR), 
Financial Markets, and Retail Banking. 
The Mid Corporate segment is also deeply entrenched in India’s 
new-age entrepreneurship ecosystem through its bespoke 
digital solutions, incubation and networking platforms 
provided to E-Commerce, Fintech, and Agritech businesses. 
The Bank has a dedicated team providing innovative banking 
solutions to cater to the unique requirements of start-ups.
 
Indian Financial Institutions 
The Indian Financial Institutions segment offers correspondent 
banking solutions to domestic banks, digital and transaction 
banking solutions, including market leading API Banking stack 
for NBFCs, mutual funds, and stockbrokers. It commands a 
dominant position in co-operative banks space. The unit has 
built a sustainable asset book with retail focussed NBFCs and 
strategic Priority Sector Lending (PSL) through Micro Finance 
Institutions. It also facilitates Co-lending/Direct Assignment 
(DA) partnerships to build the retail book further. There are 
superior offerings for Professional Clearing Members (PCM) 
and Custodial Businesses, along with banking facilities for 
stockbrokers and exchanges.
The unit engages with domestic financial institutions like 
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development 
(NABARD), the Small Industries Development Bank of India 
(SIDBI), the Export–Import Bank of India (EXIM Bank) and 
the National Housing Bank (NHB) to avail refinance. It also 
connects with overseas branches of Indian banks to avail 
Foreign Currency Borrowings and Trade Credit. 
International Banking 
The International Banking segment maintains relationships 
with an extensive network of International Banks, Multilateral 
Financial Institutions and Exchange Houses. It provides a 
complete suite of products and solutions. The unit leverages 
its strong correspondent-banking network to create 
access for its corporate customers and also for internal 
stakeholders, providing access to the international markets 
for availing financing and international banking services. 
The unit leverages the Bank’s market-leading API banking 
stack to integrate with Banks and Exchange houses to offer 
real-time instant settlement services for its cross-border 
remittance business. 
Products & Solutions: 
	y
Trade Finance 
	y
Treasury Services 
	y
Investment Banking Solutions 
	y
Remittance Solutions 
	y
Financial Advisory
Government Banking 
The Government Banking segment aims to provide financial, 
banking, technology-led solutions and strategic advisory 
services to ministries under the Union Government, State 
Government, Central and State Public Sector Undertakings, 
Boards and other affiliates. The unit delivers innovative, 
structured and comprehensive solutions, and has also 
concluded several landmark transactions with Maharatnas, 
Navratnas, Mini-Ratnas and other apex institutions. 
184
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
The Bank has deployed innovative and customised digital 
solutions for various Central and State Development and 
Procurement Agencies. It has also provided support to 
educational, religious and sporting institutions across India via 
its unique transaction banking offerings, which are aimed at 
creating operational and financial working capital efficiencies. 
The Bank also partners with the State Governments through 
the Public Financial Management System (PFMS) mode of 
payment to ensure seamless tracking of last-mile beneficiary 
disbursement and create operational efficiencies through 
the Single Nodal Account (SNA) model. The Bank's recently 
launched Agency Banking services will further strengthen the 
banks offering.
Multinational Corporates 
The Bank has established strong relationships with 
various multinational corporates across key trade 
corridors and positioned itself to extend its network 
for their India-linked businesses. The Multinational 
Corporates unit also engages with various strategic 
influencers to originate current account leads by 
leveraging its thought-leadership and transaction 
banking capabilities. The team also leverages the Bank’s 
strong digital and transaction banking capabilities to 
generate solution-led current account liabilities across all 
the corporate segments. 
Key focus areas: 
a)	 Becoming preferred host-country bank to 
global clients
b)	 Source solution-led current account from corporates 
c)	 Capital Account Transactions advisory, Transaction 
handling and FEMA Reporting
d)	 Ecosystem Banking through Supply Chain 
Financing Solutions
Product Expertise 
Transaction Banking 
The Transaction Banking is a specialised product group 
providing Trade Finance, Cash Management and Supply Chain 
Financing services to Corporates, Governments and Financial 
institutions. It also engages with strategic business groups 
to provide customised solutions directly and to their clients 
through its B2B2C approach. 
YES Transact is Transaction Banking's comprehensive 
product suite that caters to the working capital and liquidity 
management requirements of businesses across sectors and 
to a spectrum of MSME and wholesale client segments.
The product suite includes:
	y
Cash Management Services
	y 	 Cash 
Management 
Services 
for 
managing 
receivables and payables 
	y 	 Customised and innovative digital solutions, including 
market-leading API banking solutions
	y 	 Digital 
solutions 
for 
domestic/international 
correspondent banking and NBFCs
	y 	 Specialised products and solutions for government 
entities, including Central and State bodies
	y 	 Fiduciary services, for e.g., escrow, nodal and RERA
	y 	 Capital market-related products, including settlement 
and custodian services
	y 	 Curated solutions for Trusts, Associations, Societies 
and Clubs (TASC)
	y
Trade and Supply Chain Finance
	y 	 Trade finance, e.g., Letters of Credit, bank guarantees, 
export and import credit, and remittances
	y 	 Structured trade and supply chain solutions including 
digitisation initiatives
	y 	 FEMA and Capital Account advisory services
	y 	 Fintech engagements, providing its market leading API 
Banking stack, or to leverage its connected banking 
approach and generate acquisition leads 
	y 	 Foreign exchange services including cross border 
business solutions for Payment Aggregators (PA-CB)
	y 	 Bullion Sales and Gold Metal Loans
	y
Remittances
	y 	 Inward remittances for Exchange house partners 
under Rupee Drawing Arrangement
	y 	 Outward 
remittances 
under 
LRS 
for 
AD2 
& 
MTO partners
The Transaction Banking leverages its product and technology 
expertise to offer innovative digital solutions by designing, 
developing and co-creating products with corporate clients, 
fintech/technology partners, banks and exchange houses. 
The Group effectively drives digitisation in the entire financial 
supply chain of businesses across sectors, and leverages 
its flagship API banking, fintech partnerships and product 
knowledge base through its product and sales teams. 
The Group also manages Internet Banking and API channels 
for its corporate clients. As the pioneers of API Banking 
for a decade, the API Banking stack today provides 1,500+ 
API-related products and services. Transaction Banking's 
supply chain unit works with its strategic corporate clients, 
185
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
using technology to harness anchor’s supply chain linkages 
and provide critical liquidity solutions to their MSME/SME 
partners. It also offers the ‘YES Connect’ platform, an API 
marketplace that brings together banking (products and 
services offered by the Bank) and beyond banking (solutions 
from third-party partners) solutions in a simplified manner.
During the year, YES BANK launched IRIS Biz –a Super App for 
Corporates. It is omni channel platform and provides services 
via both web and mobile application. The application has 
100+ banking and beyond banking features for corporates. 
The application allows customers to seamlessly collect 
funds, make payments and manage their trade finance and 
remittance requirements. The next generation platform is 
revolutionising Banking for MSMEs and Corporates.
YES BANK also announced the launch of its Agency Business 
Mandate, enabling it to act as an agent for various state and 
central government and regulatory bodies. Through direct 
integration with the various tax portals, this empanelment 
enables businesses and individuals to meet their tax 
obligations swiftly and securely using YES BANK’s Retail and 
Corporate Internet Banking platforms, as well as any of its 
extensive branch network.
Project Finance & Loan Syndication 
The unit facilitates underwriting of project finance 
exposures across business segments and has built sectoral 
expertise over the years, across sectors such as energy, 
ports and logistics, transport, real estate, roads, refineries, 
metals, warehousing and data centres, amongst others. 
It has demonstrated its distribution capabilities across Banks, 
NBFCs and Financial Institutions. The unit provides knowledge 
inputs to key stakeholders to deepen their understanding of 
these sectors, market conditions and industry developments, 
and help devise sector specific strategies. This distinctive 
approach also helps in improving our mindshare and deepen 
client relationships. The unit further extends support to the 
Bank’s ESG initiatives by lending to sustainability sectors. 
Financial Markets 
The Financial Markets segment offers a full range of products 
and services to Large Corporates, SMEs, Government, 
Retail and Institutional Clients. Whether it is providing 
comprehensive advisory services, macroeconomic research 
or debt capital market services, its focus continues to be on 
maintaining client relationships and ensuring their growth. 
The Bank currently has 110+ professionals serving the needs 
of clients at various branches across the country. 
FX Sales: The Bank provides customised solutions for 
FX (foreign exchange) risk management to large and 
mid-sized corporates, PSUs, MNCs, banks and private equity 
funds. The Bank’s well-developed retail franchise for FX 
business caters to SMEs, HNIs and NRIs, among others. 
The Bank provides spot and derivative products for efficient 
hedging of foreign currency and interest rate exposures 
for its institutional, corporate, SME and retail customers. 
The Bank also offers solutions in complex derivative products 
to its clients. 
The segment offers products such as FX advisory for trade 
flows, foreign direct investments (FDIs), capital flows, external 
commercial borrowing (ECBs), American Depositary Receipts 
(ADRs) and hedging solutions for currency and interest rate 
exposures. Every account has a dedicated Treasury Sales 
Manager that provides key personal services such as timely 
market insights and sectoral expertise. The Bank provides 
hedging solutions to its clients outside India through IFSC 
Business Unit in GIFT City, Gujarat. 
Primary Dealership: YES BANK is one of the 21 Primary 
Dealers (PDs) designated by the RBI to actively trade, 
underwrite and bid for Government Securities, T-Bills 
and State Government Bonds in auctions, providing a 
complete suite of sovereign debt. The Bank has dedicated 
sales personnel for dealing with mutual funds, insurance 
companies, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs), cooperative 
banks, provident funds and retail customers. 
Debt Capital Market (DCM): This business is responsible 
for origination of onshore rupee debt mandates including 
Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs), Commercial Papers, 
PTCs and execution and distribution of these mandates. 
The Bank’s clientele in this segment comprises large and 
mid-market corporates, PSUs, central and state government 
entities and NBFCs. 
On the distribution front, the DCM desk has developed deeply 
entrenched relationships across various investor segments, 
including mutual funds, insurance companies, provident 
and pension funds, FPIs, banks, private wealth managers 
and NBFCs. It has successfully executed deals ranging from 
vanilla transactions to highly structured debt solutions, 
including a renewable asset pooling structure, securitisation 
of infrastructure assets, lease rental discounting and NCDs 
issued by InvITs (Infrastructure Investment Trusts). The Bank's 
DCM team has consistently been ranked in the prestigious 
league table rankings and has also received several awards 
and accolades over the years. 
186
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Balance Sheet Management Group (BSMG): The Bank’s 
BSMG team is the custodian of its cash, liquid assets and 
government securities portfolio. It manages day-today 
liquidity within the centralised treasury function with 
governance oversight by the Asset Liability Management 
Committee (ALCO). It also manages the Bank’s investments 
in securities and is responsible for meeting statutory reserve 
requirements like Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR), Statutory 
Liquidity Ratio (SLR), Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and Net 
Stable Funding Ration (NSFR). 
The BSMG team is responsible for management of liquidity 
risk and interest rate risk exposures within the Bank’s 
Balance Sheet. It also provides guidance on funds transfer 
pricing based on movement of funds within the Bank, which 
is an essential input for pricing of all the asset and liabilities 
products offered to its customers.
Bullion: YES BANK imports bullion on a consignment basis to 
meet outright purchase and gold loan requirements of bullion 
dealers and jewellery manufacturers (both domestic and 
export purpose). The Bank has emerged as a dominant player 
in the Indian bullion market and established itself among the 
top three bullion importing banks in India. Today, it is one of 
the leading banks that successfully meets the demand of 
small and medium-sized manufacturers. 
IFSC Banking Unit – GIFT City (IBU) 
YES BANK was the first Bank in India to commence operations 
at the IFSC in GIFT City, Gujarat, in October 2015. IBU provides 
comprehensive solutions to the Bank’s corporate and retail 
clients to meet their foreign currency banking requirements 
across liability and investments, cross-border trade offerings, 
external commercial borrowings and foreign currency 
loan syndications. 
Knowledge Banking 
Business Economics Banking 
Business Economics Banking is the research and knowledge 
arm providing critical analytical perspectives on domestic and 
global financial markets. The team produces cutting-edge 
reports on macro issues and public policy perspectives with an 
aim towards enabling clients with requisite knowledge base 
required for their business, backed by adequate research. 
Food and Agri Business Strategic Advisory Research (FASAR)
The specialised Food and Agri Business Strategic Advisory 
and Research (FASAR) unit houses industry specialists with 
sectoral knowledge and experience in the food and agri 
business domain. FASAR rolls out strategic initiatives and 
generates innovative banking opportunities from existing 
and prospect clients on the back of its knowledge-led 
banking services. 
The unit works closely with corporates, SMEs, multinationals, 
industry chambers, as well as Central and State Governments 
operating in the food and agri ecosystem. They focus on 
executing knowledge backed advisory engagements, ranging 
from strategic advisory, policy advisory and project advisory, 
that have high potential for generating banking outcomes. 
The FASAR unit also publishes regular strategic reports and 
research papers on key trends and developments in the food 
and agriculture sector.
187
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Corporate and Government Advisory 
The Corporate and Government Advisory segment works 
across the emerging sectors of India’s economy by 
executing knowledge and advisory mandates to further the 
Bank’s commitment towards India’s holistic, inclusive and 
sustainable growth. 
The Group leverages its in-depth sectoral expertise, research 
skills and apex-level relationship capital across government 
and industry ecosystems to assist clients, including Central 
and State governments, multi-lateral bodies, industry 
chambers and private sector players, in their development and 
growth agenda. The focused value-chain driven approach in 
sectors such as Smart Cities and e-mobility has created new 
banking opportunities for the Bank and helped in deepening 
relationships with key customer segments.
Stressed Asset Management 
YES BANK's Stressed Asset Management (‘SAM’) team leads 
management (including resolution, early exit, sustaining 
operations & recovery) of stressed loans (however Standard) 
and non-performing assets (NPAs) originating from the 
Bank’s various Corporate segments including SME. The Group 
provides effective solutions for resolution of these assets by 
leveraging its understanding in rehabilitation, restructuring, 
regulatory, legal, and recovery subjects. Over years, since 
the team has been independently managing the allocated 
portfolio, the team has added significant domain expertise 
and has successfully applied the same in the resolution of 
the allocated portfolio, involving varying degrees of nuance 
and complexity and geographies, involving both onshore and 
offshore. During the financial year, the SAM team continues 
to be ISO 9001:2015 compliant, reiterating its consistency 
while delivering quality outcomes, for both internal and 
external stake holders.
Depending on nature of cases, the SAM team pursues 
multi-pronged resolution strategies, some of which are 
detailed under: 
	y
Engaging with strategic investors for either co-
participation or complete takeover of Identified stressed 
asset or sale itself
	y
Resolution of account through various available legal 
forums, like Insolvency and Bankruptcy (IBC), Debt 
Recovery Tribunal (DRT) / Debt Recovery Appellate 
Tribunal (DRAT), SARFAESI, Arbitration
	y
Determining the right cashflows and value of the asset/ 
Corporate Debtor, thus determining and enabling 
negotiation with borrowers for one-time settlements or 
undertaking operational and financial restructuring or 
pursuing Debt Assignment activity 
	y
Depending on case requirement, engagement with 
the Borrower’s principals / counterparties is also 
undertaken to better understand the subject and 
pursue Bank’s mandate
188
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
During FY 2024-25, certain portion of Retail portfolio 
has been transferred to SAM unit for Collection and 
resolution purpose. 
SUPPORT FUNCTIONS 
Human Capital Management 
A “people-first” culture truly works towards the sustainable 
competitive advantage for the Bank. It has enabled us to 
attract and retain the best talent while driving more equitable 
outcomes. At YES BANK, we enjoy a culture that promotes 
meritocracy and career enhancement. The Bank has a total 
of 28,690 employees as at March 31, 2025 of which a net 
number of 689 employees were added in FY 2024-25. 
YES BANK’s 5C engagement model (Culture, Communication, 
Connect, Career and Care) provides a consistent and enhanced 
employee experience.
The Bank implements various talent management and 
developmental learning initiatives tailored to the needs of the 
employees, business units as well as the organisation. 
These include ‘Maestro,’ an initiative where key leaders 
participated in customised talent assessments and 
development initiatives aligned to their growth needs. 
To reinforce the Bank’s commitment to Risk & Compliance 
Culture, a learning initiative aiming to equip employees with 
the knowledge to ensure regulatory adherence was launched.
To bolster the Bank’s focus on Diversity, Equity & Inclusion, 
structured interventions were introduced to cultivate 
awareness, to sensitize employees on recognising & reducing 
the impact of unconscious biases. The aim was to promote 
more equitable & inclusive behaviours at the workplace. 
In addition to this, select women executives were identified 
who underwent a developmental journey that helped them 
evolve in their current and prepare them to take up larger 
assignments in future.
The Bank's dedication to fostering a positive workplace 
culture has been recognised with its certification as a Great 
Workplace by ‘The Great Place to Work Institute’ (GPTW) for 
the third consecutive year in India. YES BANK also received a 
recognition by GPTW for being among the Top 50 in 'India's 
Best Workplaces in BFSI 2025' for the third year in a row. 
This recognition by the GPTW Institute not only reaffirms our 
commitment to excellence in ‘people practices’, but it also 
highlights our dedication to nurture a high-trust culture.
Women participation in the Bank’s workforce increased from 
21.8% in FY 2023-24 to 23.2% in FY 2024-25. The Bank's 
attrition rate in FY 2024-25 stood at 35.5%, compared with 
38.2% in FY 2023-24. 
Risk Management 
The Bank’s long-term financial security and success is 
built on its risk management architecture. The Bank's risk 
management is based on three lines of defence: (a) business 
units, (b) independent control functions, and (c) internal audit. 
Further, the Bank’s Board has the overall responsibility of risk 
management, with the risk management architecture being 
overseen by the Risk Management Committee (RMC) of the 
Board. Additionally, risk management is undertaken by other 
Board-level committees for respective risks as per the Bank’s 
Board-approved risk architecture. 
The Bank is exposed to three Pillars. Pillar 1 includes risks 
in the course of its business such as credit risk, market risk, 
and operational risk. With the evolving banking landscape, 
the Bank is also exposed to Pillar 2, which includes risks 
such as liquidity risk, interest rate risk in banking book, and 
reputation risk.These risks are also critical as they have a 
bearing on the Bank’s financial strength and operations. 
A detailed description of various risks faced by the Bank, 
their respective governance framework, management and 
mitigation strategies, and their implication to the Bank is 
presented in Annexure 1.
The Bank has Board-approved risk policies that define its risk 
framework. The RMC and the Board monitors the compliance 
of various risk parameters and risk exposures on a periodic 
basis. The RMC also ensures that frameworks are established 
for assessing and managing various risks faced by the 
Bank. It ensures that the Bank's framework is adequate and 
appropriate for changing business and economic conditions, 
structure and needs of the Bank and is well within its 
risk appetite. 
Further, the Bank has a structured strategy assessment and 
management framework as part of Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Process (ICAAP) to identify, assess and manage 
the risks that may have a material adverse impact on its 
business strategy, financial position and capital adequacy. 
It also has in place a Board-approved risk appetite statement 
for key risks identified under ICAAP. There are internal policies 
and processes to ensure that the Bank operates within its risk 
appetite thresholds. 
The Bank has also implemented a Board-approved stress 
testing framework that forms an integral part of ICAAP and 
risk assessment. Stress testing involves the use of various 
techniques to assess the Bank’s potential vulnerability 
to extreme, but plausible, stressed business conditions. 
The Bank evaluates the impact of various stress testing 
scenarios on account of various Pillar I and Pillar II risks. 
189
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Internal Audit 
The Bank’s Internal Audit Department (IAD), which is 
ISO 9001:2015 certified (Quality Management System), 
provides an independent and objective assurance and 
consulting services to add value and improve its risk and 
control environment. The IAD monitors the adequacy, 
effectiveness and adherence to internal controls, processes 
and procedures instituted by the Bank’s management and 
extant regulations. 
The Internal Audit team reports to the Audit Committee of 
the Board ('ACB') for audit planning, reporting and review, 
and the Head of the IAD reports directly to the ACB of 
the Bank’s Board of Directors. The IAD has unlimited and 
unrestricted access to all relevant data, systems, personnel 
and information to achieve its objectives. It is staffed with 
qualified team members with relevant certifications, and 
its training programme ensures that all team members are 
upskilled at frequent intervals. 
The IAD has adopted a risk-based approach towards internal 
auditing, as per regulatory guidelines and internationally 
established best practices. A risk-based audit plan (RBAP) is 
prepared annually and is duly approved by the 'ACB'. The IAD 
audits various businesses, operations, information security 
(IS), information technology (IT) systems and support units 
as per the RBAP. The IAD prepares a report for each audit, 
recommends mitigation plans for the risks identified and 
ensures compliance with all the recommendations. The 'ACB' 
monitors the progress of the RBAP on a quarterly basis. 
The Bank also subjects its operations to concurrent auditing 
by reputed audit firms to complement its internal auditing 
function. Concurrent auditing covers core activities, including 
operations (including credit), financial markets, data centres 
(including IT & IS systems) and branches in compliance with 
regulatory guidelines. All audit reports are circulated to the 
relevant management teams and the 'ACB'. 
Compliance 
Ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements, promoting 
a robust culture of compliance among YES BANKers and 
building trust among all the stakeholders is an overarching 
consideration at the Bank. The dedicated Compliance 
Department strives to be at the forefront of regulatory 
changes and continues to work closely with all the Bank’s 
businesses and operations to be compliant with existing 
and new requirements. To further this objective, the Chief 
Compliance Officer at the Bank reports directly to the ACB. 
The key functions of the Compliance Department align 
with various RBI guidelines, which includes identifying 
effective procedures, corresponding controls to support 
the Bank’s business divisions and the dissemination of key 
regulatory updates affecting the Bank’s various businesses. 
The Compliance Department also reviews new products 
and processes from a regulatory compliance perspective, 
provides guidance on compliance-related matters, conducts 
compliance reviews and delivers training to employees 
on different aspects on compliance. In addition, the Bank 
has also put in place the KYC and Anti-Money Laundering 
policy approved by the Board and transaction monitoring 
procedures, as per the regulatory guidelines. 
Company Secretarial (CS) 
The Bank’s Company Secretarial Function is ISO 9001:2015 
certified for its functions and processes based on the key 
attributes which includes risk-based approach, ability to 
consistently meet customer and regulatory requirements, 
standard operating procedures across the business 
process, monitoring and control mechanism and continual 
improvement framework. 
The Bank is committed to achieving highest standards 
of Corporate Governance and the dedicated Company 
Secretarial (CS) Function of the Bank, endeavors to follow the 
best secretarial practices in order to uphold the governance 
standards of the Bank. The CS Function is responsible for 
the Regulatory Compliances under various Laws/Acts/
Regulations/Guidelines/Standards prescribed by SEBI, RBI, 
MCA and other stakeholders of the Bank. 
Being the Board Governance facilitator, the CS Function 
plays a critical role in organising and implementing the 
Board’s decisions, its Committees and General Meetings. 
It handles the regulatory correspondence and ensures the 
fair, prompt, uniform and transparent dissemination of 
information to the stakeholders through stock exchanges. 
The designated Company Secretary is the KMP under the 
Companies Act and reports directly to the MD&CEO, and the 
Chairman of the Board.
190
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Sustainable Finance 
The Sustainable Finance (SF) function at YES BANK is 
responsible for integrating environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) considerations into the Bank’s business. 
It is also responsible for aligning it with the objectives of 
global and national, sustainability-linked frameworks such 
as the National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct 
(NGRBC), Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the Paris 
Climate Agreement and the Principles for Responsible 
Banking (PRB), amongst others. The team works with 
Sustainability SPOCs (Single Point of Contact) across the 
Bank to implement its sustainability strategy and achieve its 
ESG-related targets, as set out by the Sustainability Council 
(chaired by the MD and CEO). The SF team is also responsible 
for updating the Board-level Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) Committee and ESG Committee on the Bank’s overall 
ESG performance and progress. 
The SF team acts as the custodian of the Bank’s Environment 
and Social Policy (ESP) which serves as a structured approach 
towards responsible lending. The ESP is an integral part 
of the Bank’s Environment and Social Risk Management 
System (ESMS) which sets out the overarching framework for 
identification and management of potential and/or existing 
environment and social (E&S) risks commensurate with the 
nature and scale of transactions and their potential impacts. 
Through this policy, the Bank integrates environmental and 
social risks into its overall credit risk assessment framework. 
The team also acts as the custodian of YES BANK’s 
Environmental Management Policy which guides the 
implementation of Bank-wide Environmental Management 
System (EMS). This EMS is designed to monitor and minimize 
the negative environmental risks and impacts of the Bank’s 
operations by driving continuous improvement in areas such 
as natural sustainable supply chain and emissions reduction. 
In FY 2024-25, 1,186 of the Bank’s facilities were certified 
under the ISO 14001:2015 EMS Standard. This was the 
12th year of certification and the Bank continues to have the 
highest number of facilities, certified as per the ISO 14001 
Standard, amongst the Banking & Financial Services and the 
Insurance (BFSI) sector, globally. 
The SF function plays a key role in implementing the Bank’s 
commitment to align its business strategy to the Paris 
Climate Agreement’s goal of limiting global temperature rise. 
YES BANK continues to be the only Indian banking signatory 
to UNEP FI’s Principle for Responsible Banking. The Bank 
has pledged to reduce Green House Gas emissions from its 
operations (scope 1 and 2), to net zero by 2030. To achieve 
this, the Bank plans to migrate most of its facilities to 
renewable sources of energy. 
Currently, three of the Bank’s major offices, YES BANK 
HOUSE, YES Fintech Centre, Airoli and R-Tech Park-Goregaon, 
along with 50 of the Bank’s 78 branches in Mumbai have 
been transitioned to renewables. In FY 2024–25, the Bank 
reduced its combined scope 1 and scope 2 emissions by 
8,034.52 tCO₂e and achieved a ~26% reduction in emission 
intensity (per rupee of turnover) compared to the previous 
year. In FY 2020-21, YES BANK had emerged as the first 
Indian Bank to measure and report financed emissions of its 
fund-based electricity generation portfolio. In FY 2022-23, 
the Sustainability Council had approved decarbonisation 
targets to reduce the financed emissions intensity of the 
Bank’s fund-based electricity generation portfolio, in line with 
the well below 2 degrees, striving for 1.5-degree scenario. In 
FY 2024-25, the Bank further expanded the scope of its 
financed emission measurement and disclosure to include 
the cement (manufacturing) and iron & steel (manufacturing) 
portfolio (covering corporate loans, investment (treasury), 
and project finance). The Bank continues to support 
climate-aligned sectors like renewable energy, and clean 
transportation, and aims to develop targeted products 
for green financing such as YES Kiran, rooftop solar loans 
dedicated to SMEs and Green Deposits.
The SF function works with teams across the Bank to enhance 
ESG and climate-related disclosures. 
In FY 2024-25, for the third year in a row, YES BANK achieved 
the highest S&P Global ESG score amongst Indian banks based 
on the S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA) 
2024 and is the only Indian Bank to be included in S&P Global 
Sustainability Yearbook 2025. The Bank’s S&P Global ESG 
score stood at 73 (out of 100) and S&P Global CSA Score stood 
at 72 (out of 100) as of November 7, 2024. The S&P Global CSA 
is considered one of the most comprehensive and granular 
assessments of an organisation’s ESG performance, taking 
into account up to 1,000 data points on an organisation’s 
performance across topics such as Climate Strategy, 
Operational Eco-Efficiency, Financial Inclusion, Human Capital 
Development, Human Rights, Corporate Governance, Risk 
Management, amongst others.
For the third year in a row, YES BANK scored ‘A-’ Leadership 
Band by CDP for its 2024 Climate Change disclosures, 
retaining its position as the highest scored Indian Bank for 
climate disclosures. CDP annually provides scores to global 
organisations across sectors, based on their climate-related 
performance. YES BANK earned the ‘Leadership Band’ (A/ A-) 
in 11 out of 17 climate-related disclosure categories, including 
areas such as climate governance, emissions reporting (scope 
1, and 2), emission reduction initiatives, and portfolio impact.
191
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In 2025, YES BANK was included as a constituent in the 
FTSE4Good Index Series for the third consecutive year. 
The Bank also continues to feature in the MSCI ACWI 
Low Carbon Leaders Index and ACWI Climate Change 
Index, among others.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
The Bank implements various programmes to create 
and enhance shared value through its unique, scalable 
and sustainable models to achieve its Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR). The Bank delivers internal and external 
positive socio-environmental impacts by following a unique 
approach that focusses on: 
	y
Promoting principles of social responsibility and inclusive 
growth through awareness and support;
	y
Investing in socially and environmentally responsible 
activities to create a positive impact; 
	y
Engaging with stakeholders to further the sustainability 
agenda of the Bank and empower them with 
knowledge; and 
	y
Collaborating with like-minded institutions and forging 
partnerships to address the needs of the stakeholders
This unique, multi-pronged approach has enabled the Bank to 
forge meaningful associations with its stakeholders, including 
community groups, non-profit organisations, governments, 
corporate peers and civil society, while delivering an 
exponential impact and concentrating on the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs). 
In FY 2024-25, the Bank continued to implement its five-year 
CSR strategy, which aims to inspire India’s youth to lead 
economic and social development by skilling themselves 
for market-oriented jobs and by taking to enterprise. 
This strategy is implemented through YES Foundation, 
the Bank’s social development arm, and aims to catalyse 
employment and entrepreneurship opportunities for 1 lakh 
individuals by 2026, while retaining its focus on environment 
sustainability. While the Foundation continued to support 
ongoing projects across its 3Es focus, the Bank allocated 
additional CSR funds of ` 21.9 crores to YES Foundation for 
expanding the scale of its projects. A summary of the impact 
achieved is given below: 
Employability: The Bank aims to capitalise on the 
demographic advantage India has in its younger generations. 
In FY 2024-25, through YES Foundation, over 7,000 young 
people were trained for different sectors, with 5,00 being 
trained from the CSR funds received from the Bank in the 
financial year under review. At least 70% of these trainees 
received gainful employment. Skills training provided to the 
trainees included work readiness and soft skills, which were 
delivered by employee volunteers through scheduled and 
structured sessions. 
Entrepreneurship: To strengthen the local economies, YES 
Foundation promotes nano-enterprises with a distinct focus 
on enhancing income of farmers and empowering women and 
artisans in the rural areas. In FY 2024-25, over 18,000 people 
enhanced their income through training and capacity building, 
market linkages and productivity enhancement initiatives 
for multiple crops, including watershed management and 
micro irrigation systems, wherever needed. Of these, 15,000 
farmers and women enhanced their income through the CSR 
funds received in the financial year under review.
Environmental Sustainability: Through YES Foundation, the 
Bank works on enhancing energy efficiency of the MSME 
sector and reducing their overall carbon footprint. As a result 
of this, 100 MSMEs benefited from the walk-through energy 
audits conducted in FY 2024-25. Further, the Bank, through 
the Foundation, planted 2 lakh trees across 11 states and 
geotagged the same. The plantations were carried out on 
farmers’ lands with a dual objective of enhancing the green 
cover as well as enabling an additional income for the farmers.
Central Data Analytics Group (CDAG) 
The Bank’s central analytics function is one of core 
pillars which focuses on driving value through data 
driven decisions. The Bank continues to invest in this 
function to leverage the latest technology and skills to 
provide deeper insights and better customer experience. 
During the year, this unit was successful in delivering the 
following capabilities:
	y
A uniform data strategy which ensures a single 
source of truth across the Bank
	y
Built the foundation layer of an enterprise data 
warehouse which will automate all the Bank's 
reporting requirements
	y
Partnered with Credit Information Companies 
(CIC) to build and deploy scorecards for various 
business scenarios across acquisition, behaviour 
and collections
	y
Hyper-personalise customer communication using 
an in-house propensity framework leading to lower 
cost of acquisition across various product groups
	y
Developed new models for EWS, AML and transaction 
fraud monitoring
192
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Business and Digital Technology Solutions (BDTS) 
The Business and Digital Technology Solutions (BDTS) 
function plays a pivotal role in enabling and sustaining the 
digital and technology backbone of the Bank. Its focus is to 
drive robust, scalable, and intelligent solutions that fuel 
growth, enhance customer experience, ensure resilience, and 
fortify the Bank's digital maturity across all fronts.
With the backdrop of rapid transformation in the financial 
services landscape, BDTS enabled technology-led change 
with precision and purpose — bringing together engineering 
excellence, platform modernisation, next-gen cybersecurity, 
and operational agility. The function’s work was anchored 
in five strategic pillars that not only supported business 
priorities, but also redefined how the Bank delivers value to 
customers, employees, and stakeholders at large.
The Five Pillars of BDTS Strategy
	y
Enabling Business Growth with Innovation
	
BDTS served as a catalyst for innovation-led growth by 
deploying modern platforms, scaling digital journeys, and 
embedding open banking frameworks, thereby enabling 
faster time-to-market for new products, digital channels, 
and fintech collaborations
	y
Driving Operational and Cost Efficiencies
	
Through automation, rationalisation of legacy systems, 
and unified platforms, BDTS delivered measurable savings 
and faster throughput across banking processes — 
enabling leaner operations and superior TATs across all 
lines of business
	y
Enhancing Risk and Governance Posture
	
The function institutionalised robust technology 
governance, reinforced IT risk management frameworks, 
ensured enterprise-grade security, and delivered 
full-stack audit readiness with high compliance to 
regulatory mandates
	y
Delivering Sustainable and Secure Services
	
Technology operations were continuously enhanced 
for availability, sustainability, and resilience through 
infrastructure optimisation, EoS/EoL remediations, 
cloud-readiness, and energy-efficient setups aligned 
with ESG ambitions
	y
Nurturing Talent and Building Future-Ready Capabilities
	
BDTS invested in workforce upskilling, future-tech 
capability building, and cultural transformation 
through Center of Excellence and learning cohorts — 
empowering a transformation-ready, innovation-oriented 
internal talent base
FY 2024–25: Transformative initiatives
The technology team has aligned its thematic activities 
with the Bank's strategic objectives, ensuring continuous 
improvement and excellence. This alignment has led to 
milestone achievements across platforms, channels, core 
systems, and ecosystems, simplifying customer journeys, 
digitising operations, and providing a competitive edge to the 
Bank’s offerings.
Unified Digital Platforms and Experience Engineering
	y
IRIS Biz and YES Business: Built and launched an 
enterprise-wide unified banking platform for MSMEs, 
consolidating over 100+ services across onboarding, 
lending, collections, payments, and service requests 
— 
a 
monumental 
step 
toward 
a 
mobile-first, 
omnichannel experience
	y
Digital Supply Chain Financing: The roll-out of SMARTFIN 
allowed supply chain participants to access seamless 
financing, automated invoice validation, and near 
real-time disbursals
	y
GST, Excise, and Customs Payments Integration: 
Partnered with regulatory bodies to digitise and simplify 
tax payments, creating seamless, real-time integration 
into government systems
Core Modernisation and Infrastructure Rationalisation
	y
TPH (Transaction Payment Hub): Centralised all payment 
operations, enabling payment capabilities — enhancing 
scale, observability, and uptime for all payment systems
	y
Service Charges – optimised collection of fees: Reduced 
billing cycles from 45 days to just 2 days, with zero manual 
intervention. Introduced intelligent controls, dispute 
workflows, and revenue assurance dashboards
	y
SME Lending Transformation: Simplified “onboarding to 
servicing” journey for SME clients with integrated data 
ingestion, fintech partnerships, and streamlined approval 
processes — significantly improving TATs and experience
	y
Digital Collections platform: Enhanced the Bank's 
receivables 
infrastructure 
by 
migrating 
100% 
of 
clients from legacy systems to the new corporate 
collections engine, driving standardisation, controls, and 
client satisfaction
Data and AI as Differentiators
	y
MANTHAN – AI Centre of Excellence: Launched the in-
house GenAI and AI Ops platform, with models live in 
query handling, document classification, and workflow 
193
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
triggers. Integrated into high-frequency support and 
customer journeys
	y
Enhanced Enterprise Data Warehouse: Initiated a full-
scale modernisation of data infrastructure to enable 
real-time analytics, customer insights, and AI/ML-based 
decisioning. EDW 2.0 also brought advanced governance, 
lineage, and role-based access structures
	y
API Marketplace Expansion: With 700+ live APIs in API-
linked NII, YES BANK's API ecosystem scaled to one of the 
largest in Indian banking, serving fintechs, corporates, 
NBFCs, and startups with real-time, secure connectivity
Operational Efficiency and Automation Gains
	y
Turnaround Time (TAT) Reductions:
	y 	 YES AIM Current Account TAT reduced from 2 days 
to 2 hours
	y 	 One-stop Disbursement (OSD) TAT reduced by 40%
	y 	 Vendor billing cycles compressed from 45 days to 
2 days, saving significant working capital effort
	y
Intelligent Observability: 80% of issues are now 
proactively 
detected 
through 
platforms 
like 
Dynatrace, enabling zero-downtime operations and 
instant remediation
Security, Compliance, and Governance Uplift
	y
End-of-Life/Service 
Remediation: 
Over 
27,000+ 
endpoints and critical infrastructure assets were 
upgraded to meet industry security standards, avoiding 
audit risks and vulnerability exposure
	y
Privileged 
Access 
Management: 
CyberArk 
rollout 
across high-risk assets ensured secure management 
of admin rights and credentials, minimising insider and 
external threats
	y
100% Access Certification Compliance: All applications 
underwent 
stringent 
access 
recertification 
with 
automated tracking and role alignment, aligned with RBI 
and DPDPA norms
	y
Audit & Regulatory Response Excellence: Delivered full-
stack compliance to UIDAI, NSDL, and other regulated 
entities; improved closure time of audit observations and 
operational risk mandates
FY 2024–25 was a transformational year for the Banks 
technology team. The function now stands at the forefront 
of delivering a secure, intelligent, and responsive technology 
ecosystem — one that not only powers today’s operations, 
but anticipates the demands of tomorrow’s digital banking.
194
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Business segment wise update is as follows: 
Investment Advisory and Wealth Broking 
Overview: Wealth Broking business continues to strive to 
offer the best proposition to its customers. It offers wide 
range of broking services, investment products and value 
added services. 
YSIL has adopted a ‘Digital First’ approach, which is in line with 
YES BANK's approach. YSIL successfully launched state-of-
the-art web and mobile trading platform during FY 2024-25. 
These platforms deliver an integrated investment experience, 
combining seamless functionality with enhanced security 
and a significantly improved UI/UX. Designed as an all-in-one 
investment solution, the new platforms reflect the Company’s 
commitment to continuous improvement and user-centric 
design. Looking ahead, YSIL plans to further strengthen the 
platform in FY 2025-26 by expanding the range of investment 
options available to customers.
~95,000
YSIL's active client base
Customer Focus: During FY 2024-25, YSIL reported 36% 
growth in its client base by opening ~1.77 lakh new accounts. 
Considering customers’ expectations, YSIL offers a customised 
set of solutions besides other off-the-shelf products and 
services. It serves varied customer segments through its 
digital as well as dealer-based investing experience. A strong 
product expertise and ‘customer-first’ culture drives product 
development and engagements, which helps the customers 
in their wealth creation journey. The range of products caters 
to various investor segments such as market novices, active 
traders, HNIs, Family offices and Corporates. 
Revenue Growth: Despite challenging regulatory and market 
condition, in FY 2024-25, income for the Wealth Broking 
business grew from ` 251.26 crore to ` 317.20 crore, which 
represents a growth of 27% Y-O-Y.
Capability Building for Future: The strategy for the upcoming 
years is focused on building efficiencies and investing in 
technology and systems to scale in terms of: (i) Acquisition, (ii) 
Activation, and (iii) ARPU. 
Ably supported by an experienced leadership team, robust 
processes and risk management practices, the Wealth 
Broking business is poised to maintain its growth trajectory 
and achieve new milestones.
Institutional Broking 
Overview: The Company’s Institutional Broking division 
continues to gain strong recognition in the market. The 
team delivers sharp, insightful research along with efficient 
sales trading and dealing capabilities to leading institutional 
investors, including asset management companies, insurance 
firms, PMSs, AIFs, banks, and corporate treasuries. The 
business is also working on expanding its footprint among 
foreign portfolio investors.
With a strong foundation in research, corporate access, and 
long-standing relationships with institutional clients, the 
Company is well-positioned to further scale its institutional 
equities business. It has recently added 11 new institutional 
clients and is now empanelled with 121 institutions.
The Company’s highly experienced Research team brings 
a cumulative 300+ years of equity research expertise and 
actively covers over 200 companies, offering one of the 
broadest coverage in the industry. The team is particularly 
known for identifying high-conviction midcap opportunities 
and contra-to-market ideas, leveraging its deep corporate 
relationships. The institutional business is also well-regarded 
for its extensive investor engagement through roadshows, 
events, on-ground diligence, channel checks, and governance 
assessments of listed stocks.
Financial Performance: The revenue from Institutional 
Broking business increased by 10.2% YoY from ` 22.2 crore 
during FY 2023-24 to ` 24.49 crore during FY 2024-25, driven 
by increased flow of business from existing customers and 
new client onboarding. 
Growth Philosophy: YSIL continues to make astute 
investments towards augmenting the team’s knowledge, 
leadership position and technical capabilities. 
Other Updates 
During the year under review, YSIL has applied to surrender 
its membership with the NCDEX and NCCL. Additionally, to 
diversify and expand its product offerings, YSIL has initiated 
the process of obtaining registration with the Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) to distribute 
insurance products as a corporate agent.
During the year, YSIL surrendered its merchant banking 
license pursuant to the transfer of its Investment Banking and 
Merchant Banking business to the Bank.
YES Securities (India) Limited (Subsidiary of YES BANK) 
YES Securities (India) Limited (‘YSIL’), a subsidiary of the Bank has reported revenue growth of 25% Y-O-Y and profit 
growth of 18% Y-O-Y. 
YSIL is on course to strengthen its four chosen fields of growth namely: (a) Client acquisition, (b) distribution of wealth 
solutions, (c) funds management and (d) institutional broking.
195
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Overview of Financial Performance 
Key Ratios:
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Return on average equity (%)
5.2%
3.0%
Return on average assets (%)
0.6%
0.3%
EPS - Basic (FV ` 2)
0.77
0.44
EPS - Diluted (FV ` 2)
0.77
0.43
Net interest Margin (%)
2.4%
2.4%
Book value per share (FV ` 2)
15.24
14.65
Cost to income
71.3%
74.4%
Yield on advances
10.1%
10.2%
Cost of funds
6.5%
6.4%
Capital Adequacy Ratio Basel III
 
 
CET 1 
13.5%
12.2%
Tier - I 
13.5%
12.2%
Tier - II 
2.1%
3.2%
Gross non performing advances 
(NPA) % to Total Advances
1.6%
1.7%
Net NPA % to Total Advances
0.3%
0.6%
CASA ratio to % of total deposits
34.3%
30.9%
The Bank has CASA ratio of 34.3%. The Bank’s shareholder 
returns for FY 2024-25 in terms of basic and diluted EPS 
were ` 0.77 and ` 0.77 respectively. The book value per 
share was ` 15.24.
Operating Performance:
` in million
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24 % change
Interest income
308,949.10 
275,859.38 
12.0%
Interest expense
219,505.64 
194,913.18 
12.6%
Net Interest Income
89,443.46 
80,946.20 
10.5%
Non interest Income 
58,568.63 
51,142.99 
14.5%
Operating Revenue
148,012.09 
132,089.19 
12.1%
Operating expenses
105,472.58 
98,226.58 
7.4%
Operating Profit
42,539.52 
33,862.61 
25.6%
Provisions and contingencies
10,856.06 
18,862.83 
-42.4%
Profit before tax
31,683.46 
14,999.78 
111.2%
Provision for tax
7,624.86 
2,488.99 
206.3%
Net Profit/(Loss)
24,058.59 
12,510.80 
92.3%
Net Profit for FY 2024-25 is ` 24,058.59 million as compared 
to profit of ` 12,510.80 million for the FY 2023-24 higher by 
92.3%. The Bank’s operating profit increased by 25.6% Y-O-Y 
on the back of NII and higher Non-Interest Income.
Net Interest income (NII) of the Bank increased by 10.5% 
to ` 89,443.46 million during FY 2024-25 as compared to 
` 80,946.20 million during FY 2023-24. The Net Interest 
Margin (NIM) was 2.4% in FY 2024-25. 
Non-interest income consists of commission and fee 
income, trade income, derivative and foreign exchange 
income, gain/loss on sale of securities and other income. 
Non-interest income increased by 14.5% from ` 51,142.99 
million in FY 2023-24 to ` 58,568.63 million in FY 2024-25. 
Operating expenses increased by 7.4% from ` 98,226.58 
million in FY 2023-24 to ` 105,472.58 million in FY 2024-25. 
The employee cost increased from ` 37,742.78 million in 
FY 2023-24 to ` 40,084.04 in FY 2024-25. Other operating 
cost increased by 8.1% from ` 60,483.80 million in 
FY 2023-24 to ` 65,388.54 million in FY 2024-25.
Provisions and contingencies (excluding provision for taxes) 
decreased by 42.4% from ` 18,862.83 million in FY 2023-24 
to ` 10,856.06 million in FY 2024-25. 
Net interest income: 
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the 
net interest income and margin:
` in million
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
% change
Interest income
308,949.10 
275,859.38 
12.0%
Interest expense
219,505.64 
194,913.18 
12.6%
Net Interest Income
89,443.46 
80,946.20 
10.5%
Net interest margin
2.4%
2.4%
 
Net Profit 
for the year is  
` 24,058.59 million
Balance Sheet  
grew 4.4%  
Y-O-Y
CET-I ratio 
 is at 13.5% 
NNPA ratio  
significantly  
improved to 0.3%
This has been the fourth year  
of full year profitability post  
moratorium on the Bank
Highlights for FY 2024-25:
196
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Net Interest income (NII) of the Bank increased by ` 8,497.26 
million to ` 89,443.46 million during FY 2024-25 as compared 
to ` 80,946.20 million during FY 2023-24. 
Non-Interest income:
` in million
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24 % change
Commission, exchange and 
brokerage
37,132.13 
30,742.60 
20.8%
Profit on the sale of 
investments (net)
4,111.27 
2,270.96 
81.0%
Profit/(Loss) on the revalua- 
tion of investments (net)
325.23 
1,043.29 
-68.8%
Profit/(Loss) on sale of land, 
building and other assets
(152.79)
(20.62)
640.8%
Profit on exchange 
transactions (net)
6,567.45 
6,441.11 
2.0%
Income earned by way 
of dividends etc. from 
subsidiaries, companies 
and/or joint ventures 
abroad/in India
- 
 - 
 
Miscellaneous income
10,585.34 
10,665.65 
-0.8%
Total
58,568.63 
51,142.99 
14.5%
Non-interest income consists of commission and fee 
income, trade income, derivative and foreign exchange 
income, gain/loss on sale of securities and other income. 
Non-interest income of the Bank increased by 14.5% to 
` 58,568.63 million during FY 2024-25 as compared to 
` 51,142.99 million during FY 2023-24 on the back of strong 
fee growth through cross sell and transaction banking.
Operating expenses:
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the 
principal components of Operating expenses: 
` in million
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24 % change
Payments to and provisions 
for employees (A)
40,084.04 
37,742.78 
6.2%
Other operating expense (B)
65,388.54 
60,483.80 
8.1%
 	 Depreciation on own 
property
4,869.20 
5,410.40 
-10.0%
 	 Other administrative 
expenses
60,519.34 
55,073.40 
9.9%
Operating expenses (A)+(B)
105,472.58 
98,226.58 
7.4%
Cost to income ratio
71.3%
74.4%
-4.2%
Non-interest expenses primarily include employee expenses, 
depreciation on assets and other administrative expenses. 
Operating expenses increase by 7.4% from ` 98,226.58 million 
in FY 2023-24 to ` 105,472.58 million in FY 2024-25.
Employee costs increased by 6.2% from ` 37,742.78 million in 
FY 2023-24 to ` 40,084.04 million in FY 2024-25. The number 
of employees have increased from 28,001 at March 31, 2024 
to 28,690 at March 31, 2025. Employee costs accounted for 
38.0% of operating expenses of the Bank for the FY 2024-25 
compared to 38.4% for the FY 2023-24. 
Other operating expenses increased by 8.1% to ` 65,388.54 
million in FY 2024-25 primarily driven by business volumes, 
higher collection charges, higher IT spends due to escalated 
annual maintenance charges and support resources. 
Number of branches also increased to 1,255 as on March 31, 
2025 from 1,234 as on March 31, 2024. 
Provisions/write back of provision and contingencies 
(including provision for tax
Provisions and contingencies decreased by 13.4% 
from ` 21,352.82 million to ` 18,480.92 million 
primarily due to decrease in provision/write back of 
provision on investment.
The key components of provisions are provisions for NPAs 
of ` 28,787.16 million [FY 2023-24: ` 24,382.31 million], 
provision for taxation of ` 7,624.86 million [FY 2023-24 
` 2,488.99 million], and provision for standard assets 
` (1,790.31) million [FY 2023-24: ` (1,011.48) million] 
and provision/write back of provision on investments of 
` (17,374.25) million [FY 2023-24: ` (5,425.77) million]. 
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has 
transferred 67,765 stressed loans (written off accounts) 
of gross value ` 5,062.71 million to ARCs. The net book 
value (‘NBV’) of these exposures in the Bank’s books 
as on the date of assignment was Nil and the final 
consideration received was ` 278.20 million under 
“100% upfront cash basis”. The realized profit amounting 
` 278.20 million due to cash recovery exceeding the net 
book value of stressed loans was credited to Profit and 
Loss Account during the year ended March 31, 2025. 
197
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial Condition: 
Assets:
` in million
Particulars
As at
March 31, 
2025
As at
March 31, 
2024
% change
Assets
Cash and bank balances
280,590.32
189,296.40
48.2%
Cash and balances 
with RBI
152,601.33
181,392.39
-15.9%
Balances with banks 
and money at call and 
short notice
127,989.00
7,904.01
1519.3%
Investments
851,044.83
902,351.32
-5.7%
	
SLR investments*
753,836.09
806,206.31
-6.5%
	
Non SLR investments
97,208.73
96,145.01
1.1%
Advances
2,461,884.69
2,277,994.72
8.1%
	
In India
2,396,277.64
2,218,391.48
8.0%
	
Outside India
65,607.05
59,603.24
10.1%
Fixed assets
30,654.25
28,565.22
7.3%
Other assets
610,048.92
656,722.25
-7.1%
Total
4,234,223.00
4,054,929.90
4.4%
*Includes investment in government securities, banks in India are 
required to maintain a specified percentage, 18.00 % as at March 31, 
2025, of their net demand and time liabilities by way of liquid assets 
like cash, gold or approved unencumbered securities.
Total assets of the Bank increased by 4.4% from ` 4,054,929.90 
million at March 31, 2024 to ` 4,234,223.00 million at March 31, 
2025, primarily due to increase in advances and investments.
Cash and bank balances
Cash and bank balances include cash in hand and balances 
with RBI and other banks including money at call and short 
notice. Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India 
decreased from ` 181,392.39 million at March 31, 2024 to 
` 152,601.33 million at March 31, 2025.
Investments
Total investments decreased by 5.7% from ` 902,351.32 million 
at March 31, 2024 to ` 851,044.83 million at March 31, 2025.
SLR investments decreased by 6.5% from ` 806,206.31 
million in FY 2023-24 to ` 753,836.09 million in FY 2024-25. 
Non SLR investments increased by 1.1% from ` 96,145.01 
million in FY 2023-24 to ` 97,208.73 million in FY 2024-25.
Advances
During FY 2024-25, the Bank recorded addition of 8.1% in its 
loan book with advances increasing to ` 2,461,884.69 million. 
Net advances of IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) in GIFT City increased 
from ` 59,603.24 million at March 31, 2024 to ` 63,361.07 
million at March 31, 2025.
Fixed assets and other assets
Net fixed assets is ` 30,654.25 million as at March 31, 2025. 
Increase during the FY 2024-25 in gross block of fixed assets 
was ` 8,801.29 million (excluding premises) mainly driven by 
addition of computer Software ` 4,789.86 million, computer 
hardware ` 2,156.69 million, vehicle ` 1,075.86 million.
Other assets decreased to ` 610,048.92 million in FY 2024-25 
from ` 656,722.25 million in FY 2023-24.
Financial Condition
Liabilities
` in million
Particulars
As at
March 31, 
2025
As at
March 31, 
2024
% change
Liabilities
Capital
62,708.23
57,535.76
9.0%
Share Warrants 
Subscription Money
0.00
9,483.92
-100.0%
Reserves and Surplus
415,092.31
354,434.23
17.1%
Deposits
2,845,251.33
2,663,721.72
6.8%
	
Current deposit 
accounts
433,044.79
413,439.89
4.7%
	
Saving Account
541,756.22
409,729.87
32.2%
	
CASA
974,801.00
823,169.76
18.4%
	
Term Deposit
1,870,450.33
1,840,551.96
1.6%
Borrowings
716,029.68
799,408.80
-10.4%
	
Borrowing in India
623,274.59
677,547.50
-8.0%
	
Borrowings outside 
India
92,755.09
121,861.31
-23.9%
Other liabilities and 
provisions
195,141.45
170,345.47
14.6%
Total
4,234,223.00
4,054,929.90
4.4%
Equity Issue
During the year ended March 31, 2025 the Bank has allotted: 
A. 	
2,559,761,818 equity shares of ` 2/- each pursuant to 
exercise of share warrants, and 
B. 	
26,471,398 equity shares (Previous year: 13,106,772 
equity shares) of face value of ` 2 each pursuant to 
the exercise of stock options by employees under the 
approved stock option schemes. 
Movement in Share Capital 
` in million
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Opening Share Capital and 
Share Warrant
67,019.68
66,993.47
Addition due to exercise of 
share option
52.94
26.21
Addition due to shares issued 
on preferential basis
5,119.52
-
Reduction due to exercise of 
share Warrants
(9,483.92)
-
Closing Share Capital
 62,708.23
 67,019.68
198
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Deposits
Deposits increased by 6.8% from ` 2,663,721.72 million 
at March 31, 2024 to ` 2,845,251.33 million at March 31, 
2025. Term deposits increased by 1.6% from ` 1,840,551.96 
million at March 31, 2024 to ` 1,870,450.33 million at 
March 31, 2025, savings account deposits increased by 32.2% 
from ` 409,729.86 million at March 31, 2024 to ` 541,756.22 
million at March 31, 2025 and current account deposits 
increased by 4.7% from 413,439.89 million at March 31, 2024 
to ` 433,044.79 million at March 31, 2025. The current and 
savings account deposits increased from ` 823,169.76 million 
at March 31, 2024 to ` 974,801.00 million at March 31, 2025. 
Total deposits at March 31, 2025 constituted 79.9% of the 
funding (i.e., deposits and borrowings). The Bank’s CD ratio 
stood at 86.5% as at March 31, 2025.
Borrowings
Borrowings decreased by 10.4% from ` 799,408.80 million at 
March 31, 2024 to ` 716,029.68 million at March 31, 2025. 
Other liabilities
Other liabilities increased by 14.6% from ` 170,345.47 million 
at March 31, 2024 to ` 195,141.45 million at March 31, 2025.
Regulatory capital
In line with the RBI circular on Basel III Capital Regulations, 
currently for computing capital requirement, YES BANK 
has adopted the standardized approach for credit risk, 
standardized duration approach for market risk and Basic 
indicator approach for operational risk. The Bank has also 
put in place a Board approved policy on Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) which defines and 
sets processes to review and improve the techniques used for 
identification, measurement and assessment of all material 
risks and resultant capital requirements. 
` in million
Capital Adequacy Ratios
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Total capital ratio (CAR) out of 
the above
15.6%
15.4%
- CET1
13.5%
12.2%
Subsidiary Performance
During FY 2024-25 YSIL reported a net profit of ` 407.41 
million. Total revenue from operations of YSIL increased by 
24.8% from ` 2,738.24 million in FY 2023-24 to ` 3,416.93 
million in FY 2024-25. 
As at March 31, 2025, the total capital infused and 
outstanding is ` 3,987.78 million in YSIL.
Implementation of IFRS converged Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) 
The Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’), as notified 
under section 133 of the Companies Act 2013 read 
with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015 as amended from time to time, have been 
formulated keeping the Indian economic and legal 
environment in view and with a view to converge with 
IFRS Standards. The RBI through its notification No. 
RBI/2018-2019/146 DBR.BP.BC. No.29/21.07.001/ 
2018-19 dated March 22, 2019 on “Deferral of 
Implementation of Indian Accounting Standards (Ind 
AS)” notified to all the scheduled commercial banks 
that legislative amendments recommended by the 
RBI are under consideration of the Government 
of India. Accordingly, RBI has decided to defer the 
implementation of Ind AS till further notice.
As per RBI directions, the Bank has taken following 
steps so far:
	y
The Bank is submitting half yearly Proforma Ind AS 
financial statements to the RBI
	y
Formed 
Steering 
Committee 
for 
Ind 
AS 
implementation (‘the IFRS (Ind AS) Management 
Committee’). The IFRS (Ind AS) Management 
Committee (Committee) comprises Chief Financial 
Officer (CFO) (Chairman), Chief Risk Officer (CRO), 
Chief Operating Officer (COO), Chief Information 
Officer (CIO) as members and senior management 
from Financial Management, Risk Management and 
Treasury Operations as invitees. The Committee 
oversees the progress of Ind AS implementation 
in the Bank and provides guidance on critical 
aspects of the implementation such as Ind AS 
technical requirements, systems and processes, 
business impact, people and project management. 
The Committee closely reviews progress of the 
implementation and related matters
	y
The Committee gives updates to the Audit 
Committee of the Board and to the Board 
on preparedness for migration to Ind AS on 
a periodic basis
	y
The Bank will continue to liaise with RBI and 
industry bodies on various aspects pertaining to Ind 
AS implementation
199
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
200
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Directors’ Report
TO,
THE MEMBERS,
Your Directors are pleased to present the Twenty First Annual 
Report on the business and operations of the Bank together 
with the audited financial statements (standalone as well as 
consolidated) for the financial year ended March 31, 2025.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
FY 2024-25 marks the completion of fifth year of the 
new journey of YES BANK of Today during which the Bank 
continued to work toward further strengthening its franchise 
and steadily worked on several underlying themes anchored 
around improving its overall positioning and profitability. 
In the first year, whilst we started with focus on rebuilding 
the Bank, in the second year we swiftly shifted our focus 
on growing the Bank. In the third year, we achieved critical 
milestones of a) raising equity capital raise from two global 
marquee Private Equity investors, and b) transferring legacy 
stressed asset pool to ARC which was by far the single largest 
transaction of sale of non-performing assets in the Indian 
Banking System. In its fourth year, the Bank sustained strong 
growth across both assets and liabilities, driven by a strategic 
focus on portfolio granularity and prudent risk-management-
reinforcing our commitment to long-term value creation. In the 
fifth year, the Bank had a dedicated focus towards improving 
the profitability profile of the Bank along with commitment 
towards excellence, customer-first, innovation, and a stronger 
future together.
The Directors are pleased to inform the shareholders that 
the Bank’s Total Assets in FY 2024-25 stood at ` 4.23 lakh 
crore, with deposits crossing ` 2.85 lakh crore highest since 
incorporation and CASA ratio at 34.3%. At the same time, the 
Return on Assets (RoA) for FY 2024-25 further expanded to 
0.6% from 0.3% in the previous year, and the annualised RoA for 
the Quarter ended March 31, 2025 was at 0.7%. Bank’s Profit 
After Tax (PAT) increased by 92.3 % to ` 2,406 crore in 
FY 2024-25 as compared to ` 1,251 crore, in the previous year. 
Borrowings for the Bank for the year ended March 31, 2025 
stood at ` 71,603 crore, a reduction of ~` 8,338 crore from the 
previous year aided by reduction in high-cost borrowings and 
RIDF balances owing to compliance with lending to Priority 
Sector through organic as well as inorganic means.
The Bank's journey through the current financial year has 
been marked by innovation, partnerships, and a sharper 
focus on strategy of profitable growth. The Bank has been 
well on track to achieve its long-term strategic objectives. 
In another important development, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking 
Corporation (SMBC), a wholly owned subsidiary of Sumitomo 
Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. (“SMFG”), recently signed a 
definitive agreement to acquire 20% shareholding in YES Bank 
from State Bank of India and other large bank shareholders, 
and subject to necessary approvals, will potentially become its 
largest shareholder. SMFG is the second largest banking group 
in Japan with Total Assets of ~US$2tn as of December 2024. 
Proposed investment of this size and scale from a global bank 
is reflective of the Bank’s franchise strength and potential to 
grow and create value for it’s stakeholders.
We continue to remain firmly aligned with our strategic 
objectives, and we are pleased to report steady progress 
across key areas of our business. We further believe that this 
would not have been possible without the Trust of all our 
stakeholders including our shareholders and customers.
Some of the key levers  that have been helping the Bank 
gradually improve its  profitability include, 1) Enhancing Net 
Interest Income  by reducing lower-yielding RIDF deposits, 
increasing share of high yielding ROA accretive products , and 
lowering deposit costs through granular and low-cost funding, 
2) Improving Non-Interest Income via expanded cross-selling 
of investment products, wealth and risk solutions, and scaling 
digital payments and merchant services, 3) Continued sharp 
focus on Cost & Efficiencies by leveraging digital capabilities, 
process & productivity improvement, 4) Reducing credit 
costs  by strengthening sourcing, early warning system and 
risk monitoring and 5) Being Judicious, Nimble and Agile 
in our organization design and transformations – while 
being customers centric and Leveraging Branch As The 
Fulcrum of business.
The Bank undertook multiple initiatives to grow its business 
and launched innovative and tailored propositions for its 
different customer segments, e.g. for its emerging affluent 
segment customers, the Bank launched YES Grandeur, a 
pioneering program offering milestone-led benefits, banking 
privileges and top tier debit card features, designed to leverage 
on the growing demand of this niche demographic customer 
segment. To empower its business segment customers 
including MSMEs, the Bank launched a new Business Banking 
mobile application with 100+ features called IRIS Biz YES, 
providing a wide range of integrated solutions to both simplify 
and strengthen business operations. The Bank also launched 
YES Private Business, an enterprise banking program that 
seamlessly blends a full array of business banking solutions 
along with best-in-class service delivery.
201
201
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
This year also brought significant recognition for our efforts. 
For the third year in a row, the Bank was rated highest among 
Indian Banks by S&P Global and CDP for ESG and climate 
disclosures and was the only Indian bank included in the S&P 
Global Sustainability Yearbook 2025. Further, YES BANK was 
recognised amongst the Top 50 of India’s Best Workplaces 
in BFSI 2025 by the esteemed Great Place to Work® (GPTW) 
Institute for the third consecutive year, a testament to the 
vibrant, high-trust, and high-performing culture of YES BANK. 
Additionally, YES Foundation celebrated 12 years of making 
a meaningful impact and was honoured with the prestigious 
CSR Universe Social Impact Award for its contribution to 
promoting livelihoods for the underprivileged.
These milestones collectively reflect YES BANK’s dedication 
to driving meaningful impact across communities and 
industries. As we step into FY26, our focus remains steadfast 
on delivering innovative, customer-centric solutions and 
creating lasting value for all stakeholders.
Other Key Highlights during FY 2024-25 includes
-	
CA Basque Investments (affiliates of The Carlyle 
Group) & Verventa Holdings Limited (affiliates of 
Advent International), both exercised their respective 
outstanding warrants which resulted in CET 1% 
accretion by 100 bps.
-	
During the year (FY24-25), CRISIL and CARE upgraded 
rating of Basel III Tier II Bonds and Infrastructure Bonds 
from A- to A+; ICRA upgraded credit rating of these 
instruments from A- to A; India Ratings and Moody’s 
reaffirmed it’s rating at A and Ba3 respectively.  
	
Further during June - July 2025, Bank received 
ratings upgrades from ICRA and CARE Basel III Tier II 
Bonds and Infrastructure Bonds to AA- and Moody’s 
upgrading rating to Ba2.
-	
Reserve Bank of India approved the appointment of 
Mr. Manish Jain as Executive Director of the Bank, effective 
December 11, 2024, further strengthening the Bank’s 
governance and leadership team. Senior Management 
Appointments during the year include Mr. Sumit Bali as 
Country Head Retail Assets & Debt Management and 
Mr. Nirav Dalal as Country Head, Financial Markets.
-	
The Bank won in the ‘Best Technology Bank’ category at 
IBA’s 20th Annual Banking Technology Conference, Expo, 
and Citations, 2024.
-	
To provide seamless and secure payment solutions 
to our customers, the Bank launched YES Pay Next, 
a cutting-edge UPI payment app with features like 
multi-mode payment collection, instant digital charge 
slips, and automated reconciliation statements.
-	
YES BANK received the prestigious ESG Excellence Award 
2024 at the KPMG ESG Conclave, marking a significant 
recognition of its sustainability efforts.
-	
YES BANK gets authorized as an Agency Bank to collect 
Central & State Tax Payments; also the Bank went live 
with seamless GST payment facility for customers as 
well as non-customers.
The Bank continued its efforts towards improving Bank’s 
profitability with the asset mix largely remained stable 
between Wholesale and Retail (which includes SME) at 
~60:40, whereas on the liability side, Bank continues to focus 
on quality, granularity, and cost, as it continues to leverage 
its Branch as the Fulcrum of Business. The Bank continued 
its sharp focus on cost & efficiencies by leveraging digital 
capabilities, which is visible in the Bank powering digital India 
as it rebuilds its leadership in the Digital Payments with the 
Bank processing 1 in 3 digital payment transactions. As of 
March 31, 2025, the Bank enjoys #1 position as UPI Payee 
PSP Bank with 56.9% market share, #2 UPI Payer PSP Bank 
with 33.4% market share, steadily gaining market share with 
#2 position in NACH with 16.3% market share, #2 position in 
NEFT with 17.3% market share, Top 3 position in IMPS with 
10.21% market share.
STATE OF THE AFFAIRS OF THE BANK
The Bank showcased resilience, sustained growth and 
reinforced its commitment to responsible banking through 
significant advancements in financial performance, operational 
capabilities, and ESG initiatives. Investments in digital 
transformation enabled seamless customer experiences and 
process efficiency. The Bank remains focused on its priorities 
and looks to continue this momentum onwards and upwards 
so that it can deliver on its strategic objectives contributing 
to India’s economic priorities and creating long term 
superior value for all its stakeholders along with maintaining 
governance reforms and strong risk management practices.
BUSINESS OUTLOOK
As we progress into Fiscal 26, the overall business outlook 
remains balanced. The global economy is projected to grow at 
a moderate pace at 2.8% in CY 2025 with inflation easing due 
to supply-side recovery and continued restrictive monetary 
policies. However, risks such as geopolitical tensions and 
commodity price volatility may persist.
However, the India’s economy, on the other hand, remains 
resilient, supported by robust government capex, tax reforms, 
and accommodative monetary policy. The December 2024 
Financial Stability Report and Economic Survey highlight 
the strength of the financial and non-financial sectors 
marked by strong bank profitability, declining NPAs, and 
202
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
solid capital buffers. Stress tests confirm systemic resilience 
even under adverse conditions. India’s GDP is expected to 
grow at 6.5% in FY26 with consumer price inflation aligning 
at 4-4.2% for FY26.
The recent reductions in the repo rate signals a shift towards 
supporting growth while maintaining inflation control. 
Following the rate cuts, the net interest margins (NIMs) for 
Indian banks may come under pressure, as the transmission 
of rate cuts on the asset side typically outpaces a similar 
adjustments on the liability side. However, the impact is 
expected to be moderate, with banks maintaining healthy 
capital buffers and diversified income streams. Despite these 
challenges, India’s GDP is projected to grow at 6.5% in FY26, 
supporting robust credit demand, particularly in retail and 
MSME segments. Profitability is expected to remain resilient, 
underpinned by improved asset quality, stable capital 
adequacy ratios, and continued growth in fee-based income. 
The sector’s non-performing asset (NPA) ratio has improved, 
and capital adequacy stands healthy. Digital transformation 
continues to be a cornerstone of growth. Indian banks are 
increasingly leveraging AI, machine learning, and blockchain 
technologies to enhance customer experience, streamline 
operations, and strengthen risk management. AI is being used 
for hyper-personalized services, fraud detection, and predictive 
analytics, while blockchain is improving transparency and 
efficiency, especially in cross-border transactions.
Under this backdrop, as we tread into FY26, we feel that strong 
consumer and business confidence, coupled with healthy 
corporate balance sheets and profitability, signal a positive 
macro outlook. Geopolitical tensions, trade uncertainties, 
and potential commodity price shocks could pose risks to 
economic momentum and, by extension, credit growth.
CHANGE IN THE NATURE OF BUSINESS
During the year under review, there has been no change in the 
nature of business of the Bank.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE (STANDALONE)
(` in million)
April 01, 2024 to
March 31, 2025
April 01, 2023 to 
March 31, 2024
Change
Deposits
2,845,251.33
2,663,721.72
181,529.62
Borrowings
716,029.68
799,408.80
-83,379.12
Advances
2,461,884.69
2,277,994.72
183,889.97
Total Assets/Liabilities
4,234,223.00
4,054,929.90
179,293.10
Net Interest Income
89,443.46
80,946.20
8,497.26
Non-Interest Income
58,568.63
51,142.99
7,425.64
Operating Profit
42,539.52
33,862.61
8,676.90
Provisions and Contingencies
10,856.06
18,862.83
-8,006.77
Profit before Tax
31,683.46
14,999.78
16,683.67
Provision for taxes
7,624.86
2,488.99
5,135.88
Net Profit/(Loss)
24,058.59
12,510.80
11,547.80
Add: Surplus/(Deficit) brought forward from last period
(91,049.75)
(100,519.74)
9,469.99
Amount available for appropriation
(66,991.16)
(88,008.95)
21,017.79
Appropriations
Statutory Reserve under Section 17 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949
6,014.65
3,127.70
2,886.95
Capital Reserve
421.00
262.64
158.36
Investment Reserve
-
431.92
-431.92
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
2,557.27
472.30
2,084.97
Transfer to Revenue and other Reserves
(19.39)
(1,253.75)
1,234.36
Surplus carried to Balance Sheet
(75,964.69)
(91,049.75)
15,085.06
Key Performance Indicators
Net Interest Margin
2.4%
2.4%
Return on Annual Average Assets
0.6%
0.3%
Return on Equity
5.2%
3.0%
Cost to Income Ratio
71.3%
74.4%
203
203
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Net Profit for FY 2024-25 is ` 24,058.59 million as compared 
to profit of ` 12,510.80 million for the FY 2023-24 higher by 
92.3%. The Bank’s operating profit increased by 25.6% Y-o-Y 
on the back of NII and higher Non-Interest Income.
Net Interest income (NII) of the Bank increased by 10.5% 
to ` 89,443.46 million during FY 2024-25 as compared to 
` 80,946.20 million during FY 2023-24. The Net Interest 
Margin (NIM) was 2.4% in FY 2024-25. Non-interest income 
consists of fee, trade income and gain on sale of securities. 
Non-interest income increased by 14.5% from ` 51,142.99 
million in FY 2023-24 to ` 58,568.63 million in FY 2024-25. 
Higher non-interest income and NII was largely offset by 
higher operating expenditure.
Operating expenses increased by 7.4% from ` 98,226.58 
million in FY 2023-24 to ` 105,472.58 million in FY 2024-25. 
The employee cost increased from ` 37,742.78 million in 
FY 2023-24 to ` 40,084.04 in FY 2024-25. Other operating 
cost increased by 8.1% from ` 60,483.80 million in FY 2023-24 
to ` 65,388.54 million in FY 2024-25.
Provisions and contingencies (excluding provision for taxes) 
decreased by 42.4% from ` 18,862.83 million in FY 2023-24 
to ` 10,856.06 million in FY 2024-25.
DIVIDEND
During FY 2024-25, the Bank has not declared any dividend 
on equity shares.
TRANSFER TO RESERVES
As per requirement of RBI Regulations, the Bank has 
transferred the following amounts to various reserves during 
Financial Year ended March 31, 2025:
Amount transferred to
` in million
Statutory Reserve
6,014.65
Capital Reserve
421.00
Investment Reserve
-
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
2,557.27
TRANSFER OF EQUITY SHARES, UNPAID/ UNCLAIMED 
DIVIDEND TO THE INVESTOR EDUCATION AND 
PROTECTION FUND
In accordance with the provisions of Section 124 and 125 
of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Investor Education 
and Protection Fund (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and 
Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”), dividend which remains 
unpaid or unclaimed for a period of seven years from the 
date of transfer to the Unpaid Dividend Account shall be 
transferred by the company to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund (“IEPF”).
Further, the provisions of Section 124(6) of the Companies 
Act 2013, read with the IEPF Rules mandates companies to 
transfer all shares in respect of which dividend has not been 
paid or claimed for seven consecutive years or more to the 
designated demat account of the IEPF Authority. The Members 
whose dividend/shares are transferred to the IEPF Authority 
can claim their shares/dividend from the IEPF Authority by 
following the procedure prescribed in the IEPF Rules.
In accordance with the said IEPF Rules, the Bank had sent 
notices to all the concerned shareholders whose shares 
were due for transfer to the IEPF Authority advising them to 
claim their unclaimed dividend and simultaneously, published 
newspaper advertisement in this regard.
The details of dividend transferred to IEPF during the Financial 
Year 2024-25 are as under:
Financial 
Year
Dividend 
declared on
Amount transferred
to IEPF (in `)
Date of transfer 
to IEPF
2016-17
June 06, 2017
2,646,108
July 31, 2024
SHARES TRANSFERRED/CREDITED TO IEPF
During the Financial Year 2024-25, the Bank transferred 
64,021 Equity Shares to IEPF corresponding to unclaimed 
dividend for the year 2016-17. The IEPF Authority holds 
348,177 Equity Shares in the Bank as at March 31, 2025.
Members whose dividends remains unclaimed are requested 
to submit their claims to KFin Technologies Limited without 
any delay. The details of Nodal Officer and Deputy Nodal 
Officer appointed under the provisions of IEPF Rules are 
available on the website of the Bank.
CAPITAL RAISING & CAPITAL ADEQUACY RATIO (“CAR”)
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has allotted:
A.	
2,559,761,818 Equity Shares of ` 2/- each pursuant to 
exercise of share warrants, and
B.	
26,471,398 Equity Shares (Previous year: 13,106,772 
equity shares) of face value of ` 2 each pursuant to 
the exercise of stock options by employees under the 
approved stock option schemes.
The consideration received pursuant to above mentioned 
conversion of share warrants had been fully utilized for the 
objects as stated in the Offer Document and that there were 
no deviations in the use of the said proceeds and also there 
was no variation between projected utilization of funds 
made by the Bank in its Offer Document and the actual 
utilization of the funds.
204
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Post allotment of aforesaid equity shares, the issued, 
subscribed and paid up share capital of the Bank stands at 
` 62,708,230,644 comprising of 31,354,115,322 equity 
shares of ` 2 each as at March 31, 2025.
The Bank has not issued any equity shares with differential 
voting rights during the year.
MOVEMENT IN SHARE CAPITAL & CAPITAL ADEQUACY 
RATIO (“CAR”)
` in million
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Opening Share Capital and 
Share Warrant
67,019.68
66,993.47
Addition due to exercise of 
share option
52.94
26.21
Addition due to shares issued 
on preferential basis
5,119.52
-
Reduction due to exercise of 
Share Warrants
(9,483.92)
-
Closing Share Capital
 62,708.23
 67,019.68
CET-I ratio is at 13.5% and CRAR is at 15.6%. NNPA ratio 
significantly improved at 0.3%.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
The Management Discussion and Analysis Report for the 
year under review as stipulated in SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing 
Regulations”) is presented in a separate section forming part 
of the Annual Report.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
The Bank has implemented an Enterprise Risk Governance 
framework to ensure holistic management and oversight 
of Risk. The Bank’s Risk Management philosophy is guided 
by a strong governance framework basis the Three Lines of 
Defence as detailed below:
First Line of Defence i.e. Business Segments: Each business 
segment of the Bank has risk ownership and is responsible 
for assessment of risks along with overall responsibility of the 
management and mitigation of the Risk. The segments are 
required to implement appropriate procedures to fulfil these 
responsibilities.
Second Line of Defence i.e. Independent Control functions: 
The Bank’s independent Control functions, such as, 
Risk Management, Credit Underwriting, Compliance etc. 
set standards for management and oversight of risks, including 
compliance with applicable laws, regulatory requirements, 
and risk policies / frameworks.
Risk Management: Risk Management team reporting to the 
Chief Risk Officer, establishes policies and frameworks for 
risk assessment and management along with contribution to 
development of controls and tools to manage, measure and 
mitigate risks faced by the Bank. Risk Management comprises 
units such as Enterprise Risk Management, Wholesale Credit 
Risk & Policy, Retail Risk & Policy, Market Risk, Operational 
Risk, Legal Risk, Information Security, Portfolio Analytics, 
Credit Risk Modelling Unit, Model Validation Unit, Risk 
Rating Unit, Fraud Prevention & Investigation Unit, Fraud 
Containment Unit, etc. which are responsible for independent 
review, monitoring and reporting of various risk control 
parameters as well as taking appropriate corrective actions 
wherever necessary in the corresponding risk domains. 
These Units act as specialized function that is well staffed 
with individuals having the necessary experience as well 
as skillsets to provide a balanced risk view for the various 
business activities undertaken by the Bank.
Credit Underwriting: The Credit Risk underwriting team 
reporting to the Chief Credit Risk Officer, ensures an 
independent assessment of credit proposals. The Credit Risk 
underwriting team is a specialized function that is well staffed 
with individuals having the necessary experience as well as 
skillsets to provide a balanced view of credit proposals to the 
sanctioning authorities.
Compliance: The Compliance unit is responsible for tracking 
implementation of all regulatory circulars/communication, 
review of new products & processes from regulatory 
perspective, conducting compliance reviews to ensure 
adherence to regulatory guidelines and monitoring progress 
in rectification of significant deficiencies (if any) pointed out by 
regulators in inspection reports as well as implementation of 
recommendations made therein. This ensures that the overall 
Compliance Risk of the Bank is managed and mitigated.
Third Line of Defence – The Bank’s Internal Audit Department 
independently reviews activities of the first two lines of 
defence based on a risk-based audit plan and methodology 
approved by the Audit Committee of the Board. Internal Audit 
Department provides independent assurance to the Audit 
Committee of the Board, top management and regulators 
regarding the effectiveness of the Bank’s governance and 
controls framework designed for risk mitigation.
The Board of Directors of the Bank has the overall responsibility 
for Risk Management. The Board oversees the Bank’s Risk & 
205
205
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Control environment. The Board also reviews and approves the 
policies designed as part of overseeing the Risk Management 
practices. In this regard, the Board:
-	
Ensures that comprehensive policies, systems and 
controls are in place to identify, monitor and manage 
material risks at a Bank-wide level, with clearly 
defined risk limits.
-	
Lays down Risk Appetite Statement which articulates the 
quantum of risk, the Bank is willing and able to assume 
in its exposures and business activities in pursuit of its 
strategic objectives and desired returns.
-	
Establishes policies governing various aspects of risk 
management, such as ICAAP Policy, Enterprise Risk 
Management Policy, Group Risk Management Policy, 
Credit Policy, Asset Liability Management Policy, 
Operational Risk Management Policy, Information 
Security Policy, Model Risk & Governance Policy, etc. 
which lay down the control framework within the overall 
Risk Appetite Statement.
The Board has put in place five Board level Committees which 
inter-alia pertain to Risk Management, viz. Risk Management 
Committee (“RMC”), Audit Committee of the Board (“ACB”), 
Special Committee of the Board for Monitoring and Follow-up 
of Frauds (‘SCBMF’), Review Committee for Classification 
and Declaration of Wilful Defaulters (“Review Committee”) 
and Board Credit Committee (“BCC”), to deal with the risk 
management practices, policies, procedures and to have 
adequate oversight on the risks faced by the Bank.
The Board and its Committees have in turn set up various 
Executive Level Committees for oversight over specific risks. 
Some of the Key committees are as below:
1.	
Apex Management Committee
2.	
Enterprise Risk Management Committee
3.	
Governing Body for IBU (IFSC Banking Unit)
4.	
Management Credit Committee
5.	
Executive Credit Committee
6.	
Asset & Liability Management Committee
7.	
Operational Risk Management Committee
8.	
Model Assessment Committee
9.	
Standing Committee on Customer Service
10.	 Fraud & Suspicious Transaction Monitoring Committee
11.	 Accountability Review Committee
12.	 Whistle Blower Committee
13.	 Disciplinary Committee
14.	 Internal Committee under POSH
15.	 Steering Committee for IFRS (IndAS)
16.	 Product Process Approval Committee
17.	 IT Steering Committee
18.	 Security Council
19.	 Sustainability Council
20.	 Fraud Identification Committee
These Committees review various aspects / key risks and 
ensure that the best-in-class frameworks are in place to 
oversee day-to-day management of underlying business 
activities, transactions and associated risks while dealing 
with internal and external stakeholders. Further, Risk events, 
potential threats, performance of the Bank vis-à-vis Risk 
appetite and Limits, Risk Profile dashboard covering key risk 
indicators, etc. are presented to these Committees, with 
periodic trends highlighted along with level and direction of risk.
Additionally, in line with best Risk Governance practices, 
the Bank has independent credit underwriting and risk 
management verticals. The underwriting vertical consisting of 
Credit Units is headed by the Chief Credit Risk Officer (“CCRO”) 
and the risk controls and policy vertical consisting of various 
independent control units is headed by the Chief Risk Officer 
(“CRO”). The CRO reports to the Risk Management Committee 
of the Board while the CCRO reports to the Managing 
Director & Chief Executive Officer, also accountable to Board 
Credit Committee.
The Bank also conducts a detailed Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Policy (‘ICAAP’) review exercise, approved by the 
Board, at least on an annual basis to identify its Risk universe, 
review its Risk appetite in line with the business strategy and 
also assess its internal controls and mitigation measures in 
place for its risks and capital requirements.
DEPOSITS
Being a banking company, the disclosures required as per Rule 
8(5)(v) and (vi) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, read 
with Sections 73 and 74 of the Companies Act, 2013 are not 
applicable to your Bank.
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
During the year under review, the Bank received several 
accolades and recognitions from credible industry bodies 
and organisation.
206
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Some of the key awards won in FY 2024-25:
•	
Business Excellence & Market Recognition
	
i.	
YES BANK recognised as a leader in the 
Primary Market Segment (Debt - Banks) for FY 
2023-24 for the eighth consecutive year by the 
Bombay Stock Exchange
	
ii.	
YES BANK featured in the S&P Global Sustainability 
Yearbook 2025, ranking in the 94th percentile globally
•	
Customer Experience & Product Innovation
	
iii.	
YES BANK won Best Product Launch for IRIS Biz by 
YES BANK at the ET Entrepreneur Awards 2025
•	
Workplace Excellence & Culture
	
iv.	
YES BANK recognised among the Top 50 Best 
BFSI Workplaces in 2024 by Great Place to Work 
Institute for the second consecutive year
	
v.	
YES BANK Legal Team won the In-house Team of 
the Year Award 2024-25 at the Indian Business 
Law Journal (IBLJ)
•	
Brand & Marketing
	
vi.	
YES BANK recognised at the ASSOCHAM Annual 
Flagship Summit on Branding and Marketing, 
winning awards in three categories:
	
	
a.	
Gold in Brand Turnaround of the Year
	
	
b.	
Gold in Best Out of Home Marketing 
Campaign of the Year
	
	
c.	
Silver in Indian Brand of the Year
	
vii.	
YES BANK won the award for the Best Integrated 
Marketing Campaign for YES Business’ ‘Your 
Business is Your Child’ campaign at the ET 
Entrepreneur Awards 2025
	
viii.	 YES BANK won the Gold for Most Effective 
Relaunch Campaign at the Exchange4Media BFSI 
Pitch Awards 2024
•	
Sustainability & Community Impact
	
ix.	
YES BANK recognised for its leadership and 
enduring commitment to excellence in ESG in the 
financial services sector by KPMG ESG Conclave 
and Awards 2024
	
x.	
YES Foundation, the social development arm of YES 
BANK, won the coveted ‘The CSR Universe Social 
Impact Award’ under the Skill Development and 
Livelihood category
DIVERGENCE 
IN 
ASSET 
CLASSIFICATION 
AND 
PROVISIONING FOR NPAs
In 
terms 
of 
the 
RBI 
circular 
no. 
DOR.ACC.REC.
No.74/21.04.018/2022-23 
dated 
October 
11, 
2022, 
Banks are required to disclose the divergences in asset 
classification and provisioning consequent to RBI's annual 
supervisory process in their notes to accounts to the financial 
statements, wherever either or both of the following 
conditions are satisfied: (a) the additional provisioning for 
NPAs assessed by RBI exceeds 5 per cent of the reported 
profit before provisions and contingencies for the reference 
period and (b) the additional Gross NPAs identified by RBI 
exceed 5 per cent of the reported incremental Gross NPAs 
for the reference period.
Based on the condition mentioned in RBI circular, no disclosure 
on divergence in asset classification and provisioning for 
NPAs is required with respect to RBI's supervisory process 
for FY2024 and FY2023.
SUBSIDIARY, 
ASSOCIATE 
AND 
JOINT 
VENTURE 
COMPANIES 
AND 
CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025, the Bank had one subsidiary i.e. 
YES Securities (India) Limited (“YSIL”).
The Bank does not have any associate and joint venture 
company. There were no entities which became or ceased 
to be the Bank’s subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures 
during the year.
During the FY 2024–25, the Bank had made capital infusion in 
YSIL of an amount aggregating to ` 1,497.78 million through 
acquisition of 25,266,225 Equity Shares of ` 10 each at a 
premium of ` 49.28 per share of YSIL under Rights Issue.
Performance and Financial Position of YSIL is given in 
Management Discussion & Analysis Report which forms part 
of this Annual Report.
The brief details about business of the subsidiary 
company are as under:
YSIL is a subsidiary of the Bank that completed Twelfth year of 
its operation in the FY 2024-25.
YSIL is a full-scale capital markets intermediary offering 
individual and institutional customers a comprehensive range 
of products and services encompassing retail broking and 
institutional broking.
YSIL is registered with the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (“SEBI”) as a stockbroker holding membership 
of the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”), 
BSE Limited (“BSE”), Multi Commodity Exchange of India 
(“MCX”) and National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange 
Limited (“NCDEX”).
207
207
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YSIL is also registered with SEBI as Investment Adviser, 
Research Analyst as well as Depository Participant with 
Central Depository Services Limited (“CDSL”) and National 
Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”). YSIL is Sponsor 
& Investment manager of YSL Alternates Alpha Plus 
Fund and YES Wealth Maximiser AIF which are registered 
with SEBI as Category III Alternative Investment Funds. 
YSIL is also registered with Association of Mutual Funds of 
India. During the year under review, YSIL has also registered 
with the Association of Portfolio Managers in India for 
distribution of third-party PMS Products.
During the year, YSIL has applied for surrender of its 
membership with the NCDEX & NCCL.
Further, with a view to diversify and expand the product 
offerings, YSIL has initiated the process for getting registration 
with the Insurance Regulatory Authority of India (‘IRDA’) for 
distribution of insurance products as a corporate agent.
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bank for the 
Financial Year ended March 31, 2025 prepared in accordance 
with the requirement of Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 
2013 shall be laid at the ensuing Annual General Meeting and 
it forms part of this Annual Report.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 129(3) of the Companies 
Act, 2013, a statement containing salient features of Financial 
Statements of Subsidiary Company of the Bank is provided in 
Form AOC-1 which forms part of the Annual Report.
The Financial Statements of the Subsidiary Company of the 
Bank are made available on the website of the Bank at weblink 
https://www.yesbank.in/about-us/investors-relation/
financial-information/annual-reports. 
The 
Financial 
Statements of the Bank and its Subsidiary Company shall 
also be available for inspection by members or trustees 
of the holders of any Debentures/Bonds of the Bank at its 
Registered Office.
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROL SYSTEMS AND THEIR 
ADEQUACY
The Bank has implemented adequate procedures and internal 
controls which provide reasonable assurance regarding 
reliability of financial reporting and preparation of financial 
statements. The Bank also ensures that internal controls 
are operating effectively. There is utmost attention accorded 
to Internal Financial Controls at both, the highest levels at 
Management as well as the Audit Committee of the Board. 
There is no material weakness in the Bank’s framework with 
respect to Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting 
and the Bank shall continue to review its overall control 
framework on an ongoing basis to ensure robustness and 
effectiveness of its controls.
MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENT AFFECTING 
FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE BANK
There are no material changes and commitments affecting the 
financial position of the Bank which has occurred between the 
end of the financial year of the Bank i.e. March 31, 2025 and 
the date of the Directors’ Report i.e. July 19, 2025.
RATINGS OF VARIOUS DEBT INSTRUMENTS
The Credit Rating and change/revision in the Credit Ratings 
for various debt instruments issued by the Bank from time to 
time are provided in the Corporate Governance Report forming 
part of the Annual Report.
LOANS, GUARANTEES OR INVESTMENTS IN SECURITIES
Pursuant to Section 186(11) of the Companies Act, 2013, loans 
made, guarantees given or securities provided or acquisition 
of securities by a Banking company in the ordinary course 
of its business are exempted from disclosure requirements 
under Section 134(3) (g) of the Companies Act, 2013.
CONTRACTS OR ARRANGEMENTS WITH RELATED 
PARTIES1
During the year, the Bank has entered into transactions with 
the related parties in the ordinary course of business, except 
the following transactions with YES Securities (India) Limited 
(subsidiary), for which necessary approvals were taken from 
the Board of Directors:
-	
Capital Infusion by the Bank upto ` 150 crore in YSIL by 
way of rights issue
The Bank has not entered into any materially significant 
transactions with the related parties including Directors, 
Key Managerial Personnel, Subsidiaries or Relatives of the 
Directors, which could lead to a potential conflict of interest. 
The details of the transactions with related parties, were 
placed before the Audit Committee of the Board of the 
Bank from time to time. There were no material individual 
transactions required to be reported under Section 188(1) of 
the Companies Act, 2013, in e-form AOC-2. Suitable disclosure 
as required by the Accounting Standards (AS-18) and the RBI 
Master Direction on Financial Statements- Presentation and 
Disclosure (last updated on April 1, 2025) have been made in 
the notes to the Financial Statements. Further, the Bank has 
submitted with the Stock Exchanges and also published on 
the Bank’s website disclosure on Related Party Transactions, 
drawn in accordance with applicable requirements of 
Regulation 23(9) of Listing Regulations for the half year ended 
September 30, 2024 and March 31, 2025 respectively.
1GRI 2-15
208
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
The Board of Directors have formulated a Policy on dealing 
with Related Party Transactions pursuant to the provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and Listing Regulations. The same is 
displayed on the website of the Bank at https://www.yesbank.
in/pdf?name=policies_pdf6.pdf.
DIRECTORS & KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
As on the date of this Report, the Board of Directors of the 
Bank comprises of thirteen (13) Directors with an optimum 
combination of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The appointments on the Board of Directors of the Bank are 
governed by the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, Listing 
Regulations, the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and the rules, 
guidelines and circulars issued by the RBI from time to time.
During the FY 2024-25, Ms. Shweta Jalan (DIN: 00291675), 
Non-Executive - Non Independent Director; Nominee of 
Verventa Holdings Limited was liable to retire by rotation and 
being eligible was re-appointed by the Members of the Bank 
at the 20th AGM held on August 23, 2024.
Further, Mr. Sunil Kaul (DIN: 05102910), Non-Executive 
Director; Nominee of CA Basque Investments ceased to be 
a Director on the Board of the Bank w.e.f. October 11, 2024, 
pursuant to his resignation due to his increasing professional 
responsibilities and work commitments both in India 
and overseas. Further, pursuant to recommendation of 
Nomination & Recommendation Committee (N&RC), on 
September 10, 2024, the Board of Directors approved the 
appointment of Mr. Manish Jain (DIN: 10774800) as an 
Additional Director with effect from the date of receipt of 
approval of RBI as Executive Director for a period of three 
(3) years. Thereafter, RBI vide its letter dated December 11, 
2024, had approved the appointment of Mr. Manish Jain as 
an Executive Director (Additional Director on the Board) of the 
Bank for a period of 3 (three) years from the date of approval 
and the said appointment was also approved by shareholders 
through Postal Ballot process on February 28, 2025.
Further, the Bank was in receipt of RBI letter dated June 12, 
2025 wherein RBI had approved the extension of the tenure 
of appointment of Mr. Prashant Kumar (DIN: 07562475) as 
Managing Director & CEO for a further period of six months 
with effect from October 6, 2025 or till the appointment of 
new Managing Director and CEO/successor taking charge, 
whichever is earlier.
Further, Ms. Shweta Jalan (DIN: 00291675), Non-Executive 
- Non Independent Director; Nominee of Verventa Holdings 
Limited vide her letter dated June 26, 2025, had submitted her 
resignation as a Director on the Board of the Bank on account 
of her other professional and work commitments, effective 
upon noting of her resignation by the Board at its Meeting held 
on June 27, 2025. Subsequently, after noting of the resignation 
of Ms. Shweta Jalan and pursuant to the recommendation of 
the N&RC, the Board of Directors of the Bank at its meeting 
held on June 27, 2025, had approved the appointment of 
Mr. Shivakumar Dega (DIN: 00364444) (Nominee of Verventa 
Holdings Limited) as an Additional Director (Non-Executive 
Director, Liable to retire by rotation) on the Board of the 
Bank, effective upon his appointment approved by the Board 
at its Meeting held on June 27, 2025. The appointment 
of Mr. Shivakumar Dega is subject to the approval of the 
shareholders of the Bank and a resolution seeking approval of 
shareholders for his appointment as Director forms part of the 
Notice of AGM scheduled on August 21, 2025.
KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL OF THE BANK
As on the date of this Report, following are the Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Bank in terms of the provision of Section 
203(1) read with Section 2(51) of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Rule 8 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014:
(i)	
Mr. Prashant Kumar, Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer;
(ii)	
Dr. Rajan Pental, Executive Director;
(iii) 	 Mr. Manish Jain, Executive Director;
(iv)	 Mr. Niranjan Banodkar, Chief Financial Officer; and
(v)	
Mr. Sanjay Abhyankar, Company Secretary.
During the FY 2024-25, there has been an addition in the 
Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank i.e. Mr. Manish Jain, 
Executive Director w.e.f. December 11, 2024.
The Board of Directors of the Bank at its Meeting held 
on January 25, 2025, had approved the appointment 
of 
Mr. 
Sanjay 
Abhyankar 
as 
Company 
Secretary 
(Key Managerial Personnel) under the Companies Act, 2013 
with effect from April 1, 2025. Further, Mr. Shivanand Shettigar, 
erstwhile Company Secretary (Key Managerial Personnel) 
superannuated on April 1, 2025 and he ceased to be Company 
Secretary of the Bank on March 31, 2025.
STATEMENT ON DECLARATION BY INDEPENDENT 
DIRECTORS
The Bank has received necessary declarations from each 
Independent Director under Section 149(6) and 149(7) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 16(1)(b) and Regulation 
25(8) of the Listing Regulations, that they meet the criteria 
209
209
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
of independence laid down thereunder. The Board has 
assessed the veracity of the confirmations submitted by the 
Independent Directors, as required under Regulation 25(9) of 
the Listing Regulations.
During the year, there has been no change in the circumstances 
affecting their status as Independent Directors of the Bank 
and that they are not debarred from holding the office of 
director under any SEBI order or any other such authority.
STATEMENT REGARDING OPINION OF THE BOARD 
WITH REGARD TO INTEGRITY, EXPERTISE AND 
EXPERIENCE (INCLUDING THE PROFICIENCY) OF THE 
INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS APPOINTED DURING THE 
YEAR
In the opinion of the Board, the Independent Directors are 
persons of integrity and possess the requisite experience, 
expertise and proficiency required under all applicable laws 
and the policies of the Bank.
NUMBER OF MEETINGS OF THE BOARD AND IT’S 
VARIOUS COMMITTEES
The details of Meetings of Board and Committees held 
during the year, attendance of Directors at the meetings and 
constitution of various Committees of the Board are included 
separately in the Corporate Governance Report, which forms 
part of the Annual Report.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF THE BOARD1
The Bank has in place duly approved performance evaluation 
framework for evaluation of the Directors including Managing 
Director & CEO, Executive Director(s), Chairperson of the 
Board, Board and Board Level Committees.
In line with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
Listing Regulations and as per the performance evaluation 
framework, the Board has internally carried out the 
performance evaluation of the Directors including Chairman, 
Managing Director & CEO, Executive Director(s), Board Level 
Committees and Board as a whole for the FY 2024-25.
The evaluation of the individual members of the Board 
(including the Chairman, Managing Director & CEO and 
Executive Director(s), was carried out through online 
questionnaires circulated to the respective Directors. 
Based on the responses received on the questionnaire from 
the Directors, the Independent Directors at their meeting held 
on April 19, 2025, assessed and reviewed the performance 
of Non-Independent Directors, Chairman, Managing Director 
& CEO, Executive Directors and subsequently the Board at its 
meeting held on April 19, 2025, assessed and reviewed the 
performance of all Directors, including Chairman, Managing 
Director & CEO, Executive Directors.
The evaluation of the Board as a whole and the Board Level 
Committee(s) was carried out by the Independent Directors 
and Board of Directors as applicable at its respective meetings 
held on April 19, 2025, by assessment on parameters viz. 
related to roles, responsibilities and obligations of the 
Board, relevance of Board / Board Committee discussions, 
attention to strategic issues, performance on key areas, 
providing feedback to executive management and assessing 
the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information 
between the management and the Board that is necessary for 
the Board / Board Committees to effectively and reasonably 
perform their duties.
The said questionnaires / evaluation criteria towards 
conduct of performance evaluation for FY 2024 – 25, 
included the following:
i.	
Individual Directors – Attendance in Board/Board 
Level Committee Meetings, active participation and 
contribution during meetings, Engagement in Informal 
discussion outside the Board Room, Updation of 
Knowledge and insight brought to the Board/Board Level 
Committee(s) Meetings.
ii.	
MD&CEO and Executive Directors – Performance 
of the Bank, Recognition and awards to the Bank, 
Leadership, Attendance at the Meetings, Participation 
and Contribution, Responsibility towards Stakeholders, 
Contribution in Strategic Planning, Compliance and 
Governance, Personal Attributes, Performance evaluation 
of the Management and Updation of Knowledge.
iii.	
Chairman – Attendance at the Meetings, Participation 
and contribution, Responsibility towards Stakeholders, 
Contribution in Strategic planning, Compliance and 
Governance, Relationship with other Board Members, 
Leadership, Relationships and Communications, Conduct 
of Meeting and Impartiality.
iv.	
Board – Strengths and Limitations of the Board, Board 
Relationships and Dynamics, Board Meetings, Information 
Flow and Agenda, Strategy and Business Performance, 
Talent Management and Succession Planning, Risk 
Management, Continuous Development, Committees of 
the Board and Top Strategic Priorities for the Bank.
v.	
Committees – Composition, frequency and duration 
of Committee meetings, trust of the Board, Role and 
effectiveness of the Committees.
1GRI 2-18
210
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
The performance evaluation process for FY 2024 - 25 
conducted internally, was completed to the satisfaction of 
the Board. The outcome of the evaluation portrayed Board 
Members confidence in the strength of the well-diversified 
Board, cohesiveness amongst the Board Members, vision and 
active participation of the Board Members, forward-looking 
and effective nature of the Board, trust in the recommendation 
of the Board Level Committees and updates provided to 
enable Board Members to discharge their responsibilities and 
fiduciary duties.
The feedback from the performance evaluation was shared 
with respective Directors, Board and Board Level Committees 
for further action. The Board of Directors also identified 
actionable with due emphasize and focus on Strategy, 
Competitive positioning, Cost Controls and Succession 
Planning. Accordingly, the implementation and conclusion of 
Performance evaluation for FY 2024-25 in compliance to the 
Performance Evaluation Framework was reviewed and noted 
by the Nomination & Remuneration Committee at its meeting 
held on May 13, 2025.
POLICY ON APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS
The Board of Directors of the Bank had formulated and 
adopted policy on “Board Diversity and Fit & Proper Criteria 
and Succession Planning” for appointment of Directors on 
the Board of the Bank and succession planning. The details 
of the same have been included in the Report on Corporate 
Governance forming part of this Annual Report.
REMUNERATION POLICY1
The Board of Directors of the Bank had formulated and 
adopted Remuneration Policy (earlier Board Remuneration 
Policy) relating to the remuneration for the Directors including 
Chairperson, Key Managerial Personnel and other Employees 
which now also incorporates the key elements of the Total 
Rewards Policy. Further, the Bank has a separate detailed Total 
Rewards Policy articulated in line with relevant RBI guidelines 
which inter-alia deals with the Compensation & Benefits of 
the Managing Director & CEO and the Whole-time Directors.
The details of the Remuneration Policy is made available on the 
Bank’s website and can be accessed at https://www.yesbank.
in/pdf?name=board_kmp_sr_mgmt_remuneration_
policy_pdf.pdf .
 Salient Features of Remuneration Policy are as follows:
1.	
Composition of Compensation
	
a.	
Fixed Pay: The Fixed pay is primarily determined 
by taking into account factors such as role, job size, 
experience, location, market competitiveness of 
pay and regulatory requirements etc. The Fixed pay 
includes Basic Salary, House Rent Allowance and 
other allowances (Conveyance, Leave Travel etc.) 
along with monetary value of Benefits like Medical 
Insurance, Life Insurance, club membership, 
Car Lease etc. and retirals like PF and Gratuity. 
Monetary value of benefits includes all perquisites 
that are reimbursable up to a ceiling.
	
b.	
Variable Pay: Variable Pay is a compensation 
element 
which 
is 
linked 
to 
Organizational 
Performance, Business Unit Performance and 
Individual Performance. Variable Pay Program 
rewards employees on both short term and 
long-term basis. The Variable Pay program at 
YES BANK is aligned with regulatory guidelines. 
There is a direct correlation between the quantum 
of Variable Pay and level of risk exposure and level 
of an employee in the organization.
	
c.	
Employee Stock Options Plan or other Share 
Linked Instrument: The ESOP scheme at YES BANK 
is a share linked instrument and its objective is to 
attract and retain talent. The ESOP schemes at 
YES BANK are in accordance with the provisions of 
SEBI Regulations and other applicable regulations. 
The schemes are approved by the Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee (N&RC), Board of 
Directors (BoD) and Shareholders. The schemes 
include terms and conditions for grant/vesting/
exercise of options. The ESOPs grants are 
recommended for select employees across grades 
in consultation with Business Unit Head, HCM 
and MD & CEO and further approved by the N&RC 
and BoD. While determining overall composition 
of Variable pay, ESOPs or other Share Linked 
Instruments are fair valued as on the date of grant 
basis Black-Scholes method.
2.	
Malus & Clawback: The Variable pay including ESOPs 
or other share linked instrument shall be subject to 
appropriate malus/clawback arrangements in the event 
of negative contributions, deteriorated performance 
of the Organization, Business Unit or Individual in any 
financial year, adverse outcomes which have manifested 
at the organization or Business unit, in the subsequent 
years, following the performance period for which 
Variable pay (Performance Bonus and /or ESOPs) has 
been awarded. The Performance Bonus already paid may 
be clawed back in such an eventuality or the Variable pay 
under deferral arrangement, including unvested ESOPs, 
may be subject to malus provisions. In such a case the 
Variable pay shall not be payable.
1GRI 2-19, GRI 2-20
211
211
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3.	
Market Benchmarking: In order to strengthen the 
Total Rewards strategy, YES BANK shall participate 
in benchmarking surveys in partnership with industry 
recognized partners to get a perspective on external 
market compensation trends in the Banking industry 
and to help improve our compensation practices for 
attracting & retaining talent.
	
a.	
Prevention of Hedging: The Bank shall not provide 
any facility or funds or permit employees to insure 
or hedge their compensation structure to offset 
the effects of risk alignment embedded in their 
compensation arrangement.
	
b.	
Disclosure: The Bank shall submit the qualitative 
and quantitative disclosure of remuneration as per 
RBI requirements, issued from time to time.
4.	
Performance 
Management: 
The 
Performance 
Management system comprises the following:
	
a.	
Goal Setting: Every employee shall have clearly 
defined performance goals which are set at 
beginning of each financial year in alignment with 
organizational and Business priorities and shall be 
approved by reporting authority.
	
b.	
Performance Review: The performance review 
shall comprise a 3-step process viz. Self- appraisal, 
Appraisal by Reporting Authority and Appraisal 
by Reviewer for the defined performance period. 
Once the appraisal is done, Reporting authority shall 
assign a performance rating for the performance 
period in consultation with Reviewer and the same 
shall be communicated to the employee.
	
c.	
Performance linked Compensation & Career 
(Promotion) Actions: The performance linked 
Compensation actions comprise the following steps:
	
	
i.	
Budgeting: The Budget for Compensation 
actions shall be determined basis organization 
performance, market parity, internal parity 
and industry & market trends etc.
	
	
ii.	
Reward Distribution: Basis the approved 
budgets 
and 
performance 
review, 
the 
compensation action shall be determined 
keeping in mind Business Unit Performance, 
Individual performance (Performance rating), 
all types of risk, role, job level and other 
regulatory requirements.
5.	
The Policy also states about the remuneration of 
Executive 
Directors, 
Chairperson, 
Non-executive 
Directors and sitting fees for Non-Executive Directors 
and further contains the factors to be considered for:
	
a.	
Remuneration 
of 
Non-Executive 
Part-time 
Chairperson;
	
b.	
Sitting fees payable to the Board of Directors for 
meetings of Committee/Board;
	
c.	
Fixed Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors.
EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION
a)	
The statement containing particulars of employees as 
required under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with Rule 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 
forms part of this Report. In terms of Section 136 of the 
Companies Act, 2013, the same would be available for 
inspection during working hours at the Registered Office 
of the Bank till the date of Annual General Meeting. A copy 
of this statement may be obtained by the Members by 
writing to the Company Secretary of the Bank.
b)	
The ratio of the remuneration of each Director and 
employees of the Bank as required under the provisions 
of Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is 
attached as Annexure 1 to the Report.
EMPLOYEES STOCK OPTION SCHEME
YES Bank has instituted Stock Option Plans to enable its 
employees to participate in Bank’s future growth and financial 
success. The Bank provides its employees a platform for 
participating in important decision making and instilling long 
term commitment towards future growth of the Bank through 
Stock Options. As a part of the Total Rewards Policy of the Bank, 
employees are granted options during the Annual Performance 
Review process based on their performance to ensure their 
retention and to attract the best talent at senior management 
and key positions. The Bank also grants Restricted Stock 
Units (RSUs) to offer competitive remuneration and retain 
high-potential as well as top-performing employees in 
middle management. The detailed disclosures as stipulated 
under Regulation 14 of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021 is hosted on the website of the Bank 
at 
https://www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=esos_disclosure_
pursuant_to_regulation_31march2025.pdf
212
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Bank is committed to follow best Corporate Governance 
practices and adheres to the Corporate Governance 
requirements set by the Regulators under the applicable 
Laws/Regulations. In line with the foregoing, the Bank has 
adopted a Code of Corporate Governance which acts as a 
guide to the Bank and the Board on the best practices in the 
Corporate Governance.
A separate section on Corporate Governance standards 
followed by the Bank and the relevant disclosures, as stipulated 
under Listing Regulations, Companies Act, 2013 and rules 
made thereunder forms part of the Integrated Annual Report.
A Certificate from M/s. BNP & Associates, Practicing Company 
Secretaries, conforming compliance by the Bank to the 
conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated under 
Listing Regulations, is annexed to the Report on Corporate 
Governance, which forms part of the Integrated Annual Report.
VIGIL MECHANISM / WHISTLE- BLOWER POLICY
In line with the provisions of Listing Regulations, the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the principles of good governance, 
the Bank has devised and implemented a vigil mechanism, 
in the form of ‘Whistle-Blower Policy’. The policy devised is 
also aligned to the recommendations of Protected Disclosure 
Scheme for Private Sector and Foreign Banks, instituted by 
RBI. Detailed information on the Vigil Mechanism of the Bank 
is provided in the Report on the Corporate Governance which 
forms part of the Annual Report.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
In compliance with Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility 
Policy) Rules, 2014, the Bank has constituted Corporate 
Social Responsibility and Environmental, Social & Governance 
(“CSR&ESG”) Committee and statutory disclosures with 
respect to the CSR&ESG Committee and Annual Report on 
CSR Activities forms part of this Report as Annexure 2.
The CSR Policy is available on the website of the Bank and can 
be accessed at https://www.yesbank.in/pdf/ybl_corporate_
social_responsibility_policy .
AUDITORS & REPORTS OF THE AUDITORS
A.	
STATUTORY AUDITORS:
	
In terms of the Guidelines issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India (“RBI”) vide Circular No. DoS.CO.ARG/
SEC.01/08.91.001/2021-22 dated April 27, 2021, the 
shareholders of the Bank at the 19th Annual General 
Meeting (‘AGM’) held on August 18, 2023 approved 
the appointment of M/s G.M. Kapadia & Co., Chartered 
Accountants, (ICAI Firm Registration No. 104767W) until 
the conclusion of 22nd AGM of the Bank which will be held 
in the financial year beginning April 1, 2026, accordingly 
they have one more full year term to continue as one 
of the joint statutory auditors of the Bank subject to 
RBI approval for re-appointment on an annual basis. 
The shareholders of the Bank at the 20th AGM held on 
August 23, 2024 had approved the appointment of 
M/s. CNK and Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants, 
(ICAI Firm Registration No. 101961W/ W100036) as joint 
statutory auditors of the Bank until the conclusion of 23rd 
AGM of the Bank which will be held in the financial year 
beginning April 1, 2027, accordingly they have two more 
full year terms to continue as joint statutory auditors of 
the Bank subject to RBI approval for re-appointment on 
an annual basis.
	
There were no qualifications, reservation or adverse 
remarks made by the Statutory Auditors in the Auditor’s 
Report for Financial Year 2024-25.
B.	
SECRETARIAL AUDITORS:
	
Pursuant to Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013, 
M/s. BNP & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries, 
were appointed as Secretarial Auditors of the Bank 
to conduct the secretarial audit for the FY 2024-25. 
The Bank provided all assistance and facilities to the 
Secretarial Auditors for conducting their audit. The Report 
of Secretarial Auditors for the FY 2024-25 is annexed to 
this report as Annexure 3. There are no qualifications, 
reservations or adverse remarks in the Secretarial Audit 
Report for FY 2024-25.
	
In terms of Regulation 24A(2) of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 read with SEBI Master Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/
PoD2/CIR/P/0155 dated November 11, 2024, relating 
to Annual Secretarial Compliance Report, the Bank had 
appointed M/s. BNP & Associates, Practicing Company 
Secretaries, for issuing the aforesaid report for FY 
2024-25. The Bank has submitted the Annual Secretarial 
Compliance Report to the Stock Exchanges within the 
prescribed time limit.
	
Further, basis the recommendation from the Audit 
Committee of the Board, pursuant to Section 204 and 
other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
and the Rules made thereunder and Regulation 24A of 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and other applicable provisions, 
M/s. BNP & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries, 
Mumbai were appointed as a Secretarial Auditor of the 
Bank for a term of 5 consecutive years commencing 
213
213
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
from FY 2025-26 by the Board of Directors, subject 
to shareholder’s approval in the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting.
MAINTENANCE OF COST RECORDS
Being a Banking Company, the Bank is not required to 
maintain cost records as per sub-section (1) of Section 148 of 
the Companies Act, 2013.
REPORTING OF FRAUDS BY THE AUDITORS
During the FY 2024-25, other than the frauds reported by the 
Statutory Auditors to the Central Government pursuant to 
Section 143(12) of the Companies Act, 2013, there were no 
instances of any frauds committed in the Bank by its officers 
or its employees which were reported by Statutory Auditors 
or the Secretarial Auditors of the Bank to the Audit Committee 
of the Board or Board of Directors of the Bank, under Section 
143(12) of the Companies Act, 2013.
BUSINESS 
RESPONSIBILITY 
& 
SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT
As 
stipulated 
in 
Listing 
Regulations, 
the 
Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report describing the 
initiatives undertaken by the Bank from environmental, social 
and governance perspective is separately attached as part of 
the Annual Report.
SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS PASSED BY 
REGULATORS
During the year under review, no significant and material orders 
were passed by the regulators or courts or tribunals impacting 
the going concern status and Bank’s operation in future.
DISCLOSURES UNDER GREEN INFRA BONDS
During the FY 2024-25, YES BANK had following outstanding 
green infrastructure bonds:
•	
August 2015: YES BANK raised ` 315 crores through 
the issue of  Green Infrastructure Bonds (bearing ISIN 
INE528G08295)  to International Finance Corporation 
on a private placement basis. The bonds are for a 
tenor of 10 years.
•	
February 2015: YES BANK issued India’s first-ever 
Green Infrastructure Bonds, raising an amount of ` 1000 
crores (bearing ISIN INE528G08279). These 10 year 
tenor bonds had witnessed strong demand from leading 
investors including Insurance companies, Pension & 
Provident Funds, Foreign Portfolio Investors, New 
Pension Schemes and Mutual Funds. These bonds have 
been redeemed upon its maturity in February 2025.
As part of their engagement, DNV Business Assurance India 
Private Limited has verified the utilization of proceeds of 
outstanding green bonds for the Q4 FY 2024-25 and for FY 
2024-25 and provided a limited assurance on conformity of 
the use of proceeds, process for evaluation and selection of 
projects, management of proceeds and reporting of these 
green bonds to Green Bonds Principles (GBP) 2021.
The GBPs are voluntary guidelines, developed by the 
International Capital Markets Association, for broad use by 
the market that recommend transparency and disclosure, 
and promote integrity in the development of the Green Bond 
market. They have the following four key components and the 
bank showcases its adoption below:
•	
Use of Proceeds: The proceeds raised by the bank are 
used in eligible project categories and include all projects 
funded in whole, or in part, in the fields of renewable and 
clean energy projects including Wind, Solar, Biomass, 
Hydropower and other such projects.
•	
Process for Evaluation and Selection of Eligible Projects: 
The Bank’s process starts with interactions with 
potential borrowers to understand the overall aspects 
of the project. The evaluation moves to documentation 
and appraisal of projects as per Bank’s policies and 
confirmation of the eligibility for Green Bonds.
•	
Management of Proceeds: Green Bond allocations 
to eligible projects are tracked by the bank through an 
MIS based system. The unallocated proceeds, if any, are 
placed in liquid instruments.
•	
Reporting: 
The 
Bank 
vide 
its 
Annual 
Reports, 
communicates an annual update with its investors and 
relevant stakeholders, which includes:
	
o	
List of projects to which proceeds have been 
allocated to, with brief description including 
amounts disbursed, installed capacity
	
o	
Qualitative/Quantitative 
potential 
impacts 
associated with projects
	
o	
Information on investment of unallocated proceeds 
in liquid instruments.
Impacts
Through financing solar and wind power plants, these bonds 
strengthen India’s energy security while reducing fossil fuel 
dependency. The financed solar and wind projects help in 
climate change mitigation with avoidance of emissions of 
CO2, SO2, NOx and other air pollutants associated with fossil 
fuel-based energy generation. Estimated CO2 emission 
avoidances are shared along with project details.
214
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
The proceeds of the ` 1000 crores Green Infrastructure Bonds (bearing ISIN INE528G08279) raised in February 2015, were 
allocated to following list of projects (as on 24th February 2025 i.e. the date of redemption upon maturity):
Proceeds utilization against Bond Issuance Size of ` 1,000 Crore (February 2015)
Sr. 
No
Project Location
Description
Total Fund Based 
Utilization, 
` Crores (as on 
24th February 
2025)
Attributed Estimated* 
positive E&S impacts 
– Annualized potential 
CO2 Emission 
Avoidance (tCO2 / yr)
1
Maharashtra
10 MW wind energy project
1.620
371
2
Andhra Pradesh/ 
Rajasthan
105 MW wind energy project in Andhra Pradesh and 50.4 MW in 
Rajasthan
190.750
55,173
3
Maharashtra
15.5 MW solar energy project
59.236
16,982
4
Gujarat
18.34 MW solar energy project and 17.60 MW wind energy project
149.536
34,151
5
Rajasthan
4.8 MW solar energy project
24.429
1,250
6
Gujarat
5 MW solar energy project and 4.4 MW wind energy project
49.107
9,486
7
Gujarat
6.67 MW solar energy project and 6.60 MW wind energy project
69.840
15,969
8
Rajasthan
300 MW solar energy project
417.406
135,492
9
Gujarat
250.8 MW wind energy project
38.076
2,713
* The attributed CO2 emission avoidance for individual projects have been calculated based on the methodology outlined in the document ‘PCAF 
(2022). The Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard Part A: Financed Emissions. Second Edition’ and ‘CO2 Baseline Database for the 
Indian Power Sector User Guide Version 20.0 dated December 2024’ (published by the Central Electricity Authority of India) along with other 
relevant factors such as project PLF/CUF estimates, installed project capacity, resultant annual unit generation etc.
Since Green Infrastructure Bonds of ` 1000 crores (bearing ISIN 
INE528G08279) have been matured following its redemption 
as on February 24, 2025, therefore, as on March 31, 2025, 
the Bank only has ` 315 crores Green Infrastructure Bonds 
(bearing ISIN INE528G08295)  issued in August 2015 as 
outstanding, proceeds of which have remained unallocated. 
As on March 31, 2025, the temporary unallocated proceeds of 
the aforesaid ` 315 crores Green Infrastructure Bonds (bearing 
ISIN INE528G08295) are allocated in Government Securities.
The independent verification statement issued by DNV 
Business Assurance India Private Limited is attached 
herewith as Annexure 4.
CONSERVATION 
OF 
ENERGY, 
TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS 
AND OUTGO
The disclosures required to be made under Section 134(3)
(m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(3) of the 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 on the conservation of 
energy, technology absorption and Foreign exchange earnings 
and outgo are given in Annexure 5.
ANNUAL RETURN
Pursuant to Section 92(3) and Section 134(3)(a) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, the Bank has placed a copy of the Annual 
Return in the prescribed Form MGT-7 as at March 31, 2025 
on 
its 
website 
at 
https://www.yesbank.in/about-us/
investors-relation/financial-information/annual-reports
COMPLIANCE WITH SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
The Board of Directors affirm that the Bank has complied with 
the applicable Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute 
of Company Secretaries of India SS-1 and SS-2 respectively 
relating to Meetings of the Board, its Committees and the 
General Meetings.
COMPLIANCE WITH MATERNITY BENEFIT ACT, 1961
The Bank has complied with the applicable provisions relating 
to Maternity Benefit Act, 1961.
PREVENTION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT OF WOMEN 
AT THE WORKPLACE
The Bank has no tolerance towards any act on the part of 
any employee which may fall under the ambit of ‘Sexual 
Harassment’ at workplace and is fully committed to uphold 
and maintain the dignity of every woman working in the 
Bank. The Policy regarding Prevention & Prohibition of Sexual 
Harassment at Workplace provides for protection against 
sexual harassment of women at workplace and for prevention 
and redressal of complaints. The Bank’s policy clearly states 
that employees must not indulge in any unwelcome acts or 
behaviour, which could be construed as sexual harassment, 
either directly or implied. Such acts shall be treated as a serious 
misconduct under the Bank’s Code of Conduct and would be 
215
215
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
dealt with utmost seriousness with regard to imposition of 
punishment, if found guilty. Additionally, in its endeavor to 
spread awareness on the policy and ensure compliance by all 
the employees, the Bank has implemented a plan of action to 
disseminate the information and train the employees on the 
policy under the ambit of ‘Gender Respect and Commitment 
to Equality’ (“GRACE”) programme.
The Bank has complied with provisions relating to the 
constitution of Internal Committee under the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH).
Number of cases filed and their disposal under Section 22 of 
the POSH is as follows1:
Particulars
No. of 
Complaints
Number of Complaints carried forward from last year 
(FY24)
04
Number of Complaints filed during the Financial Year 
(FY25)
30
Number of Complaints disposed of during the 
Financial Year (FY25)
21
Number of Complaints pending as on the end of the 
Financial Year (FY25)
13*
Investigation for 4 cases were closed beyond 90 days due to 
unavoidable circumstances.
*The investigation and action for all the pending cases is completed as 
on July 19, 2025 i.e. the Date of the Report.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
Pursuant to the requirement under Section 134(5) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, it is hereby confirmed that:
(a)	
in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable 
accounting standards had been followed along with 
proper explanation relating to material departures;
(b)	
the Directors had selected such accounting policies and 
applied them consistently and made judgements and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Bank at 
the end of the financial year and of the profit of the Bank 
for that period;
(c)	
the Directors had taken proper and sufficient care for 
the maintenance of adequate accounting records in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 for safeguarding the assets of the Bank and for 
preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
(d)	
the Directors had prepared the annual accounts on a 
going concern basis;
(e)	
the Directors, had laid down internal financial controls to 
be followed by the Bank and that such internal financial 
controls are adequate and were operating effectively; and
(f)	
the Directors had devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable 
laws and that such systems were adequate and 
operating effectively.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Your Directors take this opportunity to express their deep 
and sincere gratitude to the customers of the Bank for their 
confidence and patronage, as well as to the Reserve Bank of 
India, Securities and Exchange Board of India, Government of 
India, and other Regulatory Authorities for their cooperation, 
support and guidance. Your Directors would like to express a 
deep sense of appreciation for the commitment shown by the 
employees in supporting the Bank. We would also like to thank 
all our valued partners, vendors and stakeholders who have 
played a significant role in continuing to support the Bank.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
YES BANK Limited
Date: July 19, 2025
Place: Mumbai, India
Prashant Kumar
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN: 07562475)
Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
Chairman
(DIN: 03341633)
1GRI 2-16
216
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
The details of Managerial Remuneration and Employee Remuneration under Section 197(12) of The Companies 
Act, 2013
The ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median employee’s remuneration and other details in terms of sub-section 
12 of Section 197 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014:
1.	
The ratio of the remuneration# of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees for the financial year; and
2.	
Percentage increase in remuneration# of each Director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Company Secretary 
or Manager, if any, in the financial year:
Directors/KMPs
Designation
Ratio to median 
remuneration of 
employees
% Increase in 
remuneration
Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi1 Non-Executive Part Time Chairperson, Independent Director
6.3x
-5.0%
Mr. Atul Malik
Independent Director
8.7x
13.79%
Ms. Rekha Murthy
Independent Director
6.3x
20.90%
Mr. Sharad Sharma
Independent Director
6.0x
15.25%
Mr. Sandeep Tewari
Nominee Director of State Bank of India
6.0x
40.99%
Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar
Nominee Director of State Bank of India
6.6x
14.73%
Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao
Independent Director
6.7x
13.44%
Ms. Nandita Gurjar
Independent Director
4.4x
32.76%
Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani
Independent Director
5.8x
36.12%
Mr. Sunil Kaul2
Non Executive Director (Nominee of CA Basque Investments)
-
-
Ms. Shweta Jalan2
Non Executive Director (Nominee of Verventa Holdings Limited)
-
-
Mr. Prashant Kumar3
Managing Director & CEO
52.1x
17.22%
Dr. Rajan Pental4
Executive Director
48.7x
0.64%
Mr. Manish Jain4&5
Executive Director
13.0x
NA
Mr. Niranjan Banodkar
Chief Financial Officer
NA
21.80%
Mr. Shivanand R. Shettigar
Company Secretary
NA
2.70%
3.	
The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year:
	
The median remuneration of the employees in the financial year was increased by 10.46%. For the calculation of % increase 
in Median Remuneration only employees who were in employment for the whole of financial year 2024-25 have been 
considered. Employees who were not eligible for increment have been excluded.
4.	
The number of permanent employees on rolls of the Bank:
	
There were 28,690 employees as at March 31, 2025. (Male – 22,043 and Female – 6,647)
5.	
Average percentiles increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the last 
financial year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof 
and point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration:
	
Average remuneration increase for non-managerial personnel of the Bank during the financial year 2024-25 was 10.56 % and 
average remuneration increase for managerial personnel of the Bank during the financial year 2024-25 was 10.59%. For the 
calculation of average remuneration increase of non-managerial personnel only employees who were in employment for the 
whole of financial year 2024-25 have been considered. Employees who were not eligible for increment have been excluded.
6.	
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Bank:
	
Yes.
Annexure 1
217
217
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes:
I.	
#Remuneration includes Fixed Pay + Performance Bonus paid during the year + perquisite value as calculated under the 
Income Tax Act, 1961. Remuneration does not include value of Stock Options.
II.	
1Remuneration to Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi in the FY 2024-25, consists of following:
	
i.	
Sitting fees for attending meetings held during FY 2024-25, of the Board/Committees/Independent Directors.
	
ii.	
Fixed remuneration paid for FY 2024-25 in capacity of Non-Executive Part-time Chairman, as approved by the Board 
and the RBI, within the limit approved by the Members of the Bank.
III.	
2Mr. Sunil Kaul and Ms. Shweta Jalan have waived their right to receive sitting fees for attending the Board/Board Level 
Committee Meetings of the Bank and remuneration as entitled in terms of extant Acts/Regulations/Board Remuneration 
Policy of the Bank, during their tenure as Director of YES BANK Limited. Further, Mr. Sunil Kaul ceased to be the director of 
the Bank w.e.f. October 11, 2024 and Ms. Shweta Jalan ceased to be the director of the Bank w.e.f. noting of her resignation 
by the Board of Directors at its meeting held on June 27, 2025.
IV.	
The remuneration of the Non-executive Director (other than the Non-Executive Part-time Chairman) of the Bank, paid during 
FY 2024-25, comprises:
	
i.	
Compensation in the form of fixed remuneration as per limits prescribed under the RBl Circular dated April 26, 2021, 
on Corporate Governance in Banks - Appointment of Directors and Constitution of Committees of the Board and the 
relevant resolution passed by the Members at the Eighteenth Annual General Meeting; and
	
ii.	
Sitting fees for attending meetings held during FY 2024-25, of the Board/Committees/Independent 
Directors, as applicable.
V.	
During the FY 2024-25 and FY 2023-24, fixed remuneration for FY 2023-24 and fixed remuneration for FY 2022-23 
(on proportionate basis), was paid to Non-Executive Directors respectively.
VI.	
3Remuneration in case of Managing Director & CEO is regulated by RBI guidelines and is paid post approval of RBI.
VII.	
4Remuneration in case of Executive Director(s) is regulated by RBI guidelines and is paid post approval of RBI.
VIII. 	 5Mr. Manish Jain was appointed from December 11, 2024 and his remuneration for the period from December 11, 2024 
to March 31, 2025 has been considered. Accordingly, the percentage increase is not given since the fixed remuneration as 
Executive Director was received only for part of the FY 2024 – 25.
218
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) ACTIVITIES
1.	
A BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE BANK’S CSR POLICY, INCLUDING OVERVIEW OF PROJECTS UNDERTAKEN:
	
YES BANK’s CSR POLICY:
	
YES BANK aims to contribute towards nation building and make a meaningful and measurable impact in people’s 
lives. The Bank’s CSR Policy outlines the approach and direction given by the Board of Directors, taking into account 
recommendations of the Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental, Social & Governance Committee and includes 
guiding principles for selection, implementation and monitoring of corporate social responsibility activities as well as 
formulation of a CSR annual action plan.
	
APPROACH TOWARDS CSR:
	
The Bank’s approach to CSR aligns with Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and is in accordance with the Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 as amended from time to time. YES BANK undertakes CSR initiatives to:
	
-	
Promote principles of social responsibility and inclusive growth through awareness and support
	
-	
Strengthen the trust of its stakeholders, including society at large
	
-	
Establish the Bank as a responsible corporate citizen
	
YES BANK’s FOCUS AREAS UNDER CSR:
	
The Bank undertakes CSR activities that focus on 3Es:
	
-	
Employability
	
-	
Entrepreneurship
	
-	
Environment Sustainability
2.	
COMPOSITION OF CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL & GOVERNANCE 
COMMITTEE (“CSR&ESGC”):
	
The Composition of the CSR&ESGC as on March 31, 2025 is as under:
Sl.
No.
Name of Director
Designation/Nature of Directorship
Number of meetings of 
CSR&ESG Committee 
held during the year
Number of meetings of 
CSR&ESG Committee 
attended during the year
1
Ms. Rekha Murthy
Chairperson, Independent Director
2
2
2
Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao
Member, Independent Director
2
2
3
Ms. Nandita Gurjar
Member, Independent Director
2
2
4
Ms. Shweta Jalan
Member, Non-Executive Director 
(Nominee of Verventa Holdings Limited)
2
2
5
Dr. Rajan Pental
Member, Executive Director
2
2
6
Mr. Manish Jain
Member, Executive Director
1*
1*
	
*Mr. Manish Jain was appointed as Member of the Committee w.e.f. December 15, 2024.
	
During FY 2024-25, two (2) meetings of the Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental, Social and Governance 
Committee were held on June 12, 2024 and February 07, 2025. The number of meetings of the CSR&ESGC held during 
the year mentioned in the table above to be read as eligible to attend, also details of change in the composition of the 
Committee during the year are provided elsewhere in the Corporate Governance Report.
Annexure 2
219
219
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3.	
PROVIDE THE WEB-LINK WHERE COMPOSITION OF CSR&ESG COMMITTEE, CSR POLICY AND CSR PROJECTS APPROVED 
BY THE BOARD ARE DISCLOSED ON THE WEBSITE OF THE COMPANY:
	
a)	
For composition of the CSR&ESG Committee:
	
	
https://www.yesbank.in/about-us/our-team
	
b)	
For CSR Policy:
	
	
https://www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=ybl_corporate_social_responsibility_policy.pdf
	
c)	
For CSR Projects: https://www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=csr_annual_action_plan_fy2024_25.pdf
4.	
PROVIDE THE DETAILS OF IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF CSR PROJECTS CARRIED OUT IN PURSUANCE OF SUB-RULE (3) OF 
RULE 8 OF THE COMPANIES (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY) RULES, 2014, IF APPLICABLE:
	
Not applicable
5.	
(a) 	 Average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135: ` 1259.51 crores
	
(b)	
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135: ` 25.20 crores
	
(c)	
Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years : NIL
	
(d) 	 Amount required to be set-off for the financial year, if any: ` 2.20 crores
	
(e)	
 Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b)+(c)-(d)] : ` 23.00 crores
6.	
(a) 	 Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project) : ` 21.90 crores
	
(b) 	 Amount spent in Administrative Overheads : ` 1.1 crores
	
(c) 	
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable : Not applicable
 	
(d)	
 Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)] : ` 23.00 crores
	
(e)	
CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year:
Total Amount 
spent for 
Financial Year
Amount Unspent (in `)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent CSR 
Account as per Section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as 
per second proviso to Section 135(5)
Amount.
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
` 23 crores
Nil
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Nil
Not Applicable
	
(f)	
Excess amount for set-off, if any:
Sl.
No.
Particular
Amount
(in ` crore)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135
25.20
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
25.20*
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(ii)-(i)]
0
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous Financial Years, if any
0
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)]**
0
	
	
*Of this amount, ` 23 crores was spent towards CSR program expenses and administrative overheads and ` 2.2 crores was offset 
against excess CSR spends incurred in FY 2023-24.
	
	
**An amount of ` 7.8 crores is available for offset from excess CSR spends incurred in FY 2023-24.
220
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
7.	
DETAILS OF UNSPENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AMOUNT FOR THE PRECEDING THREE FINANCIAL 
YEARS:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Sl.
No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year(s)
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
sub- section (6) of 
section 135 (in `)
Balance Amount 
in Unspent CSR 
Account under 
sub-section (6) 
of section 135 
(in `)
Amount 
Spent 
in the 
Financial 
Year (in `)
Amount transferred to a Fund 
as specified under Schedule 
VII as per second proviso to 
sub- section (5) of section 135, 
if any
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
Financial Years 
(in `)
Deficiency, 
if any
Amount (in `) Date of Transfer
1
FY-1
Not Applicable
2
FY-2
3
FY-3
8.	
WHETHER ANY CAPITAL ASSETS HAVE BEEN CREATED OR ACQUIRED THROUGH CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY AMOUNT SPENT IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR:
	
 Yes	
 No*
	
*There are no capital assets created by YES BANK (i.e. invoice is in the name of YES BANK). The assets created/acquired 
by implementing partners of YES Foundation, where project directly belongs to creation/acquisition is disclosed on the 
Foundation’s website – https://www.yesfoundation.in/capital-assest-creation-details.xlsx. Further, none of the capital 
assets created/acquired out of CSR funds, directly by YES BANK or implementing partners of YES Foundation have been 
capitalized in the books of accounts of YES BANK.
	
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/acquired - Not Applicable
	
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in 
the Financial Year:
Sl. 
No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s) 
[including complete address 
and location of the property]
Pin code of 
the property 
or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount 
of CSR 
amount 
spent
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of the 
registered owner
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Not Applicable
CSR
Name
Registered address
Registration
Number, if applicable
	
(All the fields should be captured as appearing in the revenue record, flat no, house no, Municipal Office/Municipal Corporation/ Gram 
panchayat are to be specified and also the area of the immovable property as well as boundaries)
9.	
Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per 
subsection (5) of section 135. – Not Applicable
Prashant Kumar
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN: 07562475)
Rekha Murthy
Chairperson of Committee
(DIN: 07825183)
Date: July 19, 2025
221
221
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
To,
The Members,
YES BANK LIMITED
YES BANK HOUSE,
Off Western Express Highway,
Santacruz East,
Mumbai – 400055
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by YES Bank Limited having CIN: - 
L65190MH2003PLC143249 (hereinafter called “the Bank”) 
for the financial year ended on 31st March, 2025 (the “Audit 
Period”/ “Period under review”/ “Review Period”).
We conducted the Secretarial Audit in a manner that provided 
us with a reasonable basis for evaluating the Bank’s corporate 
conducts/ statutory compliances and expressing our 
opinion thereon.
We are issuing this report based on:
(i)	
Our verification of the Bank’s books, papers, minutes 
books, forms and returns filed, records provided and 
other records maintained by the Bank;
(ii)	
Compliance certificates confirming compliance with 
corporate laws applicable to the Bank given by the Key 
Managerial Personnel / Senior Managerial Personnel 
of the Bank and taken on record by the Bank’s Audit 
Committee / Board of Directors; and
(iii)	 Representations made, documents produced and 
information provided by the Bank, its officers, agents 
and authorized representatives during our conduct of 
Secretarial Audit.
We hereby report that, in our opinion, during the Audit 
Period covering the financial year ended on 31st March, 
2025, the Bank has:
(i)	
Complied 
with 
the 
statutory 
provisions 
listed hereunder; and
(ii)	
Board processes and compliance mechanisms are in 
place 
Annexure 3
FORM NO. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2025
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
	
to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting 
made hereinafter.
1.	
COMPLIANCE 
WITH 
SPECIFIC 
STATUTORY 
PROVISIONS
	
We further report that:
1.1	 We have examined the books, papers, minutes books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the Bank during the year in terms of the applicable 
provisions / clauses of:
	
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the Rules 
made thereunder;
	
(ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(“SCRA”) and the Rules made thereunder;
	
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations 
and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
	
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act (“FEMA”), 1999 
and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder to 
the extent applicable.
	
(v)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (“SEBI Act”)
	
	
(a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial 
Acquisition 
of 
Shares 
and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
	
	
(b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India 
(Prohibition 
of 
Insider 
Trading) 
Regulations, 2015*;
	
	
	
During the FY 2024-25, violations made by 
some of the designated persons covered 
under the Bank’s internal Code of Conduct 
pursuant to the above Regulations against 
which appropriate action has been taken, have 
been duly reported to the Stock Exchanges.
	
	
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018;
222
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
	
	
(d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021;
	
	
(e)	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015;
	
	
(f)	
Securities 
and 
Exchange 
Board 
of 
India 
(Depositories 
and 
Participants) 
Regulations, 2018;
	
	
(g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the 
Companies Act and dealing with client;
	
	
(h)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible 
Securities) Regulations, 2021;
	
	
(i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992;
	
	
(j)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Bankers to an Issue) Regulations, 1994
	
	
*The Bank has also maintained a Structured Digital 
Database (“SDD”) pursuant to the requirements of 
regulation 3 (5) and 3 (6) of Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015.
	
(vi)	 Secretarial Standards relating to meetings of Board 
of Directors and Committees constituted by the 
Board and General Meetings issued by The Institute 
of Company Secretaries of India (Secretarial 
Standards) and notified by the Central Government 
under Section 118 (10) of the Act which have 
mandatory application.
1.2 	 During the period under review:
	
(i)	
The Bank has complied with all the applicable 
provisions of all the aforesaid Acts, Rules, 
Regulations, Guidelines and Secretarial Standards 
as mentioned above.
	
(ii)	
Complied with the applicable provisions / clauses of:
	
	
(a)	
FEMA to the extent of Foreign Direct 
Investment received under paragraph 1.1 (iv);
	
	
(b)	
The Secretarial Standards on meetings of 
Board of Directors (SS-1) and on General 
Meetings (SS-2) mentioned under paragraph 
1.1 (vi) above, which were applicable to 
the meetings of the Board of Directors, 
Committees constituted by the Board held 
during the audit period, the 20th Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) held on 23rd August, 
2024, and the Postal Ballot conducted by 
the Bank which concluded on 28th February, 
2025. The compliance of the provisions of 
the Rules made under the Act with regard 
to participation of Directors through video 
conferencing 
for 
the 
Board/Committee 
meeting(s) held during the audit period, 
were verified based on the minutes of such 
meetings as provided by the Bank.
1.3 	 During the audit period, provisions of the following Acts /
Regulations were not applicable to the Bank:
	
(i)	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and 
the rules and regulations made thereunder to the 
extent of Overseas Direct Investment and External 
Commercial Borrowings.
	
(ii)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; and
	
(iii)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018
1.4 	 We have also examined, on test-check basis, the relevant 
documents and records maintained by the Bank and 
provided to us with respect to the following Statutes/
Regulations which are applicable to the Bank:
	
(i)	
The Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (the “BR Act”);
	
(ii)	
The Yes Bank Limited Reconstruction Scheme, 
2020 (“the Scheme”) notified vide gazette no. 
G.S.R. 174(E) dated March 13, 2020 by the 
Ministry of Finance;
	
(iii)	 The IRDAI (Registration of Corporate Agents) 
Regulations, 2015.
2.	
BOARD PROCESSES OF THE BANK:
	
We further report that:
2.1.	 The Board of Directors of the Bank as on 31st March, 
2025 comprised of:
	
i.	
Three Executive Directors -
	
	
•	
Mr. Prashant Kumar (DIN - 07562475) who is 
the Managing Director & CEO;
	
	
•	
Dr. Rajan Pental (DIN – 08432870) who is the 
Executive Director;
	
	
•	
Mr. Manish Jain (DIN – 10774800) who is the 
Executive Director.
	
ii.	
Three Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors 
including one Woman Non-Executive Director -
	
	
•	
Mr. Sandeep Tewari (DIN – 09623300);
223
223
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
	
•	
Ms. Shweta Jalan (DIN – 00291675);
	
	
•	
Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar (DIN – 09623382).
	
iii.	
Seven 
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Directors, 
including two Women Independent Directors –
	
	
•	
Mr. Atul Malik (DIN– 07872539);
	
	
•	
Ms. Nandita Gurjar (DIN– 01318683);
	
	
•	
Mr. 
Rama 
Subramaniam 
Gandhi 
(DIN– 03341633);
	
	
•	
Ms. Rekha Murthy (DIN– 07825183);
	
	
•	
Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao (DIN– 01245772);
	
	
•	
Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani (DIN– 00072812);
	
	
•	
Mr. Sharad Sharma (DIN– 05160057).
2.2	  The processes relating to the following changes in 
the composition of the Board of Directors and Key 
Managerial Personnel during the year, were carried out 
in compliance with the provisions of the Act:
	
1.	
The members of the Bank at its AGM held on 
August 23, 2024 approved the Re-appointment of 
Ms. Shweta Jalan (DIN-00291675), Non-Executive 
Nominee of Verventa Holdings Limited, as a director 
liable to retire by rotation.
	
2.	
Cessation of office of Directorship of Mr. Sunil Kaul 
(DIN: 05102910) as Director who was nominee 
of CA Basque Investments with immediate effect 
from October 11, 2024, due to resignation.
	
3.	
Based on the recommendations of the Nomination 
and the Remuneration Committee, the Board of 
Directors of the Bank at their meeting held on 
September 10, 2024, the approval of the RBI 
vide its letter dated December 11, 2024, as also 
the approval of the members of the Bank by way 
of Postal ballot held on 28th February, 2025 the 
candidature of Mr. Manish Jain (DIN – 10774800) 
as an Executive Director (i.e. Whole-time Director) 
(“ED”) and designated as Key Managerial Personnel 
of the Bank was approved for a period of three 
years from December 11, 2024 to December 10, 
2027, pursuant to the applicable provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) and rules made 
thereunder, The Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (“BR 
Act”), the rules, circulars, notifications, guidelines 
issued by the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) from 
time to time (including any statutory modification(s) 
or amendment(s) thereto or re-enactment(s) 
thereof for the time being in force) and the Articles 
of Association of the Bank, on such terms and 
conditions as approved by the members..
2.3 	 Adequate notice(s) with Agenda and the detailed notes 
to Agenda were given at least seven days before the 
dates of meetings to all the directors to enable them 
to plan their schedule for the meetings of the Board 
and the Committees constituted by the Board, and 
where the meetings were held at shorter notice, due 
compliance was ensured, as required under the Act and 
the Secretarial Standard relating to meetings of the 
Board of Directors.
2.4 	 A system exists for directors to seek and obtain further 
information and clarifications on the agenda items 
before the meetings and to ensure their meaningful 
participation at the meetings.
2.5 	 We note from the minutes examined during the course of 
audit that, at the Board meetings held during the year:
	
(i)	
Decisions were taken through the majority 
of the Board; and
	
(ii)	
No dissenting views were expressed by any Board 
member on any of the subject matters discussed, 
which were required to be recorded as part 
of the minutes.
3.	
COMPLIANCE MECHANISM
	
There are adequate systems and processes prevalent 
in the Bank, which are commensurate with its size and 
operations, to monitor and ensure compliance with all 
applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
4.	
SPECIFIC EVENT(S) / ACTION(S)
	
During the period under review as also considering the 
period till the date of issue of this report, the following 
specific event(s)/action(s), having a major bearing on the 
Bank’s affairs have taken place: -
4.1.	 The Bank, during the period under review, has allotted 
2,64,71,398 Equity Shares of face value of ` 2/- (Rupees 
Two Only) each, to eligible employees, in pursuance of the 
YBL ESOS-2020 Scheme of the Bank from time to time.
4.2.	 The Board of Directors of the Bank, on April 21, 2024, 
approved the allotment of 127,98,80,909 (One Hundred 
Twenty Seven Crore Ninety Eight Lakh Eighty Thousand 
Nine Hundred and Nine) equity shares of face value 
of Rupees 2/- (Rupees Two only) each of the Bank 
(“Additional Investor Equity Shares”), each fully paid-up 
for cash, at an issue price of Rupees 14.82/- (Rupees 
Fourteen and paisa Eighty Two only) (including premium 
of Rupees 12.82/- (Rupees Twelve and paisa Eighty 
Two only) per Additional Investor Equity share, to CA 
Basque for a consideration of Rupees 1,896,78,35,071/- 
(Rupees One Thousand Eight Hundred Ninety Six Crore 
224
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Seventy Eight Lakhs Thirty Five Thousand and Seventy 
One only), pursuant to the exercise of 127,98,80,909 
share warrants by CA Basque Investments, based on 
the receipt of entire subscription amount of Rupees 
1,896,78,35,071/- from CA Basque Investments.
	
Pursuant to the above allotment of the Equity Shares, 
the total issued and paid-up share capital of the Bank 
stands increased to the extent of the number of equity 
shares allotted to CA Basque Investments.
4.3.	 The Board of Directors of the Bank, on April 27, 2024 
approved making additional Equity Capital infusion 
aggregating up to INR 250 crore (Rupees Two Fifty Crore 
only) in two tranches of INR 150 crore (INR One Hundred 
Fifty crore) and INR 100 crore (INR One Hundred crore) in 
the FY 2025 and FY 2027 respectively in YES Securities 
(India) Limited, Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Bank.
4.4.	 The Board of Directors of the Bank, on 5th May, 2024, 
approved the allotment of 127,98,80,909 (One Hundred 
Twenty-Seven Crore Ninety-Eight Lakhs Eighty Thousand 
Nine Hundred and Nine) equity shares of face value of 
` 2/- (Rupees Two only) each of the Bank (“Additional 
Investor Equity Shares”), each fully paid-up for cash, at an 
issue price of Rupees 14.82/- (Rupees Fourteen and paisa 
Eighty Two only) (including premium of Rupees 12.82/- 
(Rupees Twelve and paisa Eighty Two only) per Additional 
Investor Equity Share, to Verventa for a consideration of 
Rupees 1,896,78,35,071/- (Rupees One Thousand Eight 
Hundred Ninety Six Crore Seventy Eight Lakhs Thirty 
Five Thousand and Seventy One only)), pursuant to the 
exercise of 127,98,80,909 share warrants by Verventa 
Holdings Limited, based on the receipt of Exercise Notice 
from Verventa Holdings Limited.
	
Pursuant to the above allotment of the Equity Shares, 
the total issued and paid-up share capital of the Bank 
stands increased to the extent of the number of equity 
shares allotted to Verventa Holdings Limited.
4.5.	 The Members of the Bank at the Twentieth Annual 
General Meeting approved the following resolutions on 
23rd August, 2024:
	
a)	
To approve material related party transactions 
with 
State 
Bank 
of 
India 
and 
material 
modification(s) thereto.
	
b)	
To 
approve 
the 
revised 
remuneration 
of 
Mr. Prashant Kumar (DIN - 07562475), Managing 
Director and Chief Executive Officer.
	
c)	
To 
approve 
the 
revised 
remuneration 
of 
Dr. Rajan Pental (DIN – 08432870) as an Executive 
Director of the Bank.
	
d)	
To approve revision in ceiling of fixed remuneration 
to Non-Executive Directors (NEDs) of the Bank.
	
e)	
To authorize capital raising through an issuance of 
debt instruments.
	
f)	
To approve the ‘YBL Restricted Stock Units Plan 
2024’ (“Plan” or “YBL RSU - 2024”).
4.6.	 The Members of the Bank through Postal Ballot approved 
the following on 28th February, 2025:
	
a)	
Appointment of Mr. Manish Jain (DIN: 10774800) 
as a Director of the Bank with effect from 
11th December, 2024;
	
b)	
Appointment of Mr. Manish Jain (DIN: 10774800) 
as an Executive Director of the Bank for a period 
of three years with effect from 11th December, 
2024 to 10th December, 2027 and payment 
of remuneration;
	
c)	
Approval for revision in Remuneration and 
Variable Pay of Mr. Prashant Kumar (DIN: 
07562475), Managing Director & Chief Executive 
Officer of the Bank;
	
d)	
Approval of Remuneration including Variable Pay 
of Dr. Rajan Pental (DIN: 08432870), Executive 
Director of the Bank;
4.7.	 The Nomination & Remuneration Committee of YES 
Securities (India) Limited (‘YSIL’), the wholly owned 
subsidiary of YES Bank Limited (‘the Bank’), at its 
meeting held on 30th October, 2024 has approved 
the allotment of equity shares to its employees / 
ex-employees (“eligible employees”) against stock 
options exercised by the eligible employees under YSIL 
– Employee Stock Option Scheme. Accordingly, YSIL has 
ceased to be a wholly owned subsidiary of the Bank and 
continues to be the subsidiary of the Bank with effect 
from 30th October, 2024.
4.8.	 Cessation of office of Mr. Shivanand R. Shettigar (ICSI 
Membership No: F4105) as Company Secretary (Key 
Managerial Person) of the Bank, on 31st March, 2025 
upon his superannuation.
	
Based on the recommendations of the Nomination and 
the Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors 
of the Bank at their meeting held on 25th January, 
2025 have appointed Mr. Sanjay Abhyankar (ICSI 
Membership No. A13727) as the Company Secretary 
225
225
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
and Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank with effect 
from 1st April, 2025 pursuant to Section 203 and 
other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 
(including any statutory modification(s) or reenactment (s) 
thereof for the time being in force).
4.9.	 The Board of Directors of the Bank, at its meeting held on 
9th May, 2025, approved the execution of Share Purchase 
Agreement (“SPA”) between State Bank of India 
(“Seller” / “SBI”), Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 
(“Purchaser”) and the Bank wherein the purchaser 
to acquire 20% of total shareholding in the Bank i.e. 
13.19% from SBI, and 6.81% in aggregate from other 
shareholders of the Bank i.e. Axis Bank Limited, Bandhan 
Bank Limited, Federal Bank Limited, HDFC Bank Limited, 
ICICI Bank Limited, IDFC First Bank Limited and Kotak 
Mahindra Bank Limited through execution of Individual 
SPAs (“Other SPAs”). Further, the Bank has approved 
execution of Shareholders Agreements with SBI, and 
with the Purchaser. Upon completion of the proposed 
share transfers under the SPA and Other SPAs: (a) the 
Purchaser will acquire 20% of the total shareholding in 
the Bank; and (b) SBI will continue to hold more than 10% 
shareholding in the Bank.
Date: 14.05.2025
Place: Mumbai
For BNP & Associates
Company Secretaries
[Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400]
[PR No.: - 6316/2024]
Kalidas Ramaswami
Partner
FCS No.: - F2440 COP No.: - 22856
UDIN: - F002440G000339799
*The members are requested to read this report along with our letter 
of even date annexed to this report as Annexure-A.
226
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Annexure A to the Secretarial Audit Report for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025
To,
The Members,
YES BANK LIMITED
YES BANK HOUSE,
Off Western Express Highway,
Santacruz East,
Mumbai – 400055
Our Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
The Bank’s Management is responsible for maintenance of secretarial records and compliance with the provisions of 
corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations and standards. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
secretarial records produced for our audit.
2.	
We have followed such audit practices and processes as we considered appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about 
the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records.
3.	
We have considered compliance related actions taken by the Bank based on independent legal/ professional opinion 
obtained as being in compliance with law.
4.	
We have verified the secretarial records furnished to us on a test basis to see whether the correct facts are reflected therein. 
We have also examined the compliance procedures followed by the Bank. We believe that the processes and practices we 
followed, provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
5.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Bank.
6.	
We have obtained the management’s representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and happening of 
significant events, wherever required.
7.	
Our Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Bank.
Date: 14.05.2025
Place: Mumbai
For BNP & Associates
Company Secretaries
[Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400]
[PR No.: - 6316/2024]
Kalidas Ramaswami
Partner
FCS No.: - F2440 COP No.: - 22856
UDIN: - F002440G000339799
227
227
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
























Annexure 4


228
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
 
































































































 

229
229
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Page 3 of 7
Scope and Objectives
YES Bank Limited (“YES Bank” or the “Customer”) had three Green Infrastructure Bonds issuance 
against its pool of eligible projects and assets, out of which following green bond is outstanding as of 
March 31, 2025:
1.
August 2015: Raised an amount of INR 315 crore (bearing ISIN INE528G08295) through 
International Finance Corporation (IFC) on a private placement basis. 
DNV Business Assurance India Pvt Ltd (henceforth referred to as “DNV”) notes that the February 2015 
bond of INR 1000 crore have matured in February 2025 and have been reported in this report. 
YES Bank has used the proceeds of the Green Bonds to finance the nominated projects and assets 
included within the following eligible green project categories as detailed in the YES Bank Green Bonds 
Internal Guidelines & Processes (Green Bonds Framework, V9.0, last updated on 12th Mar’24):
Green Bond details
Eligible green projects for allocations1
GB1: Issued in February 2015 
(Institutional Investors) (INR 1000 
Cr)1 and matured in February 2025
Renewable and clean energy projects, in accordance with Green 
Bonds Principles including generation from sources such as 
Wind, Solar, Biomass, Hydropower and other such projects.
GB2: Issued in August 2015 
(Private placement by IFC) (INR 
315 Cr)2
Renewable Energy projects, in accordance with the Green Bond 
Principles. RE resources shall include only solar and wind 
projects.
1The list of projects in which the Green Bonds Proceeds of February 2015 bond have been utilized is provided in 
Annexure I
2The Green Bonds Proceeds of August 2015 bond are unallocated and declaration for intended investments has been 
checked by DNV. Based on the evidence verified, DNV can confirm that as of March 2025, the August 2015 tranche 
has not been allocated. As the disclosure is price sensitive and confidential, same has been not reproduced.
DNV has been commissioned by YES Bank to provide the Quarterly Programmatic Verification of the 
Green Bonds as an independent and approved verifier. In addition, DNV Business Assurance India Pvt 
Ltd is also approved as validation and verification body as per ISO 17029. Our criteria and information 
covered to achieve this is described under ‘Work Undertaken’ below. 
No assurance is provided regarding the financial performance of the Green Bonds, the value of any 
investments in the Green Bond, or the long term environmental benefits of the transactions. Our 
objective has been to provide a limited verification for use of proceeds of the funds raised through Green 
Bonds in February 2015 and August 2015 as below:

Quarterly third-party verification of the use of proceeds allocated to the eligible Green Projects in 
line with the Clause 2.1 of Chapter IX-Green Debt Securities of Operational Circular no 
SEBI/HO/DDHS/P/CIR/2021/613 dated August 10, 2021 (updated as on April 13, 2022).

Quarterly third-party verification service of the use of proceeds allocated to the eligible Green 
Projects as International Capital Markets Association (“ICMA”) Green Bond Principles (“GBP”) 
requirements for alignment with four components of GBP.
The Statement is based on information and data covering the period from 01 January 2025 to 31 March 
2025. The statements for previous three quarters of FY25 has been provided before.
230
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Page 4 of 7
Responsibilities of the Management of YES Bank and DNV
The management of YES Bank has provided the information and data used by DNV during the delivery of 
this review. Our statement represents an independent opinion and is intended to inform YES bank
management and other interested stakeholders in the Green Bonds as to whether the criteria identified 
above have been met, based on the information provided to us. In our work we have relied on the 
information and the facts presented to us by YES Bank. DNV is not responsible for any aspect of the 
bonds referred to in this opinion and cannot be held liable if estimates, findings, opinions, or conclusions 
are incorrect as a result of the information or data provided by Yes Bank’s management and used as a 
basis for this assessment not being correct or complete.
Basis of DNV’s Opinion
DNV has conducted the verification against the requirements of the Green Bond Principles, 2021 and 
Clause 2.1 of Chapter IX-Green Debt Securities of Operational Circular no 
SEBI/HO/DDHS/P/CIR/2021/613 dated August 10, 2021 (updated as on April 13, 2022).
As per our Protocol, the criteria against which the Green Bonds have been reviewed are grouped under 
the four Principles:

Principle One: Use of Proceeds. The Use of Proceeds criteria are guided by the requirement 
that an issuer of a Green Bond must use the funds raised to finance or refinance eligible activities. 
The eligible activities should produce clear environmental benefits. 

Principle Two: Process for Project Evaluation and Selection. The Project Evaluation and 
Selection criteria are guided by the requirements that an issuer of a Green bond should outline the 
process it follows when determining eligibility of an investment using the Green bond proceeds 
and outline any impact objectives it will consider. 

Principle Three: Management of Proceeds. The Management of Proceeds criteria are guided 
by the requirements that a Green bond should be tracked within the issuing organisation and that 
a declaration of how unallocated funds will be handled should be made. 

Principle Four: Reporting. The Reporting criteria are guided by the recommendation that at 
least Sustainability Reporting to the investors should be made of the use of bond proceeds and 
that quantitative and/or qualitative performance indicators should be used, where feasible.
Work Undertaken
Our work constituted a high level review of the available information, based on the understanding that 
this information was provided to us by YES Bank in good faith. We have not performed an audit or other 
tests to check the veracity of the information provided to us. We believe with our professional judgement 
that the procedures performed for limited assurance are sufficient and appropriate based on the 
supportive evidences. The work undertaken to form our verification opinion included:
Programmatic Verification

Assessment of documentary evidence provided by YES Bank in relation to the Green Bonds, and 
supplemented by a high-level desktop research.

Review of the list of projects to which GB1 proceeds have been allocated during 01 January 2025
to 24 February 2025 and their conformance with GBP.
231
231
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Page 5 of 7

Checked Green Bond Framework of YES Bank, that provides the guidelines and internal process 
for proceeds management and utilization adopting components and requirements of GBP and 
SEBI Circular (Chapter IX). The SPO on the framework was issued by KPMG dated 7th June 
2016.

Review of internal tracking sheet and allocation of funds from the Green Bond proceeds to 
eligible projects and fund based outstandings.

Review of estimated environment impact of the selected projects in terms of carbon dioxide 
emission reductions data from projects as per the methodology using supportive information 
provided.

Statement indicating intended investments for the balance of unallocated proceeds from Green 
Bonds (GB2) issued by YES Bank.

Documentation of findings against each element of the criteria. 
Findings and DNV’s Opinion
DNV has performed the Quarterly Programmatic Verification of the YES Bank’s Green Bonds for the 
quarter 4 (January’25 – March’25) and previously for quarter 1, 2 and 3 of financial year ending 31 
March 2025. It is DNV’s responsibility to provide an independent verification statement on the 
compliance of the YES Bank’s Green Bonds with the Sector Technical Criteria.
DNV conducted the verification in accordance with ISAE 3000 (revised) - International Standard on 
Assurance Engagements 3000 Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
Information. The verification included i) checking whether the provisions of the Sector Technical Criteria
were consistently and appropriately met and ii) the collection of evidence supporting the verification.
DNV planned and performed the verification by obtaining evidence and other information and 
explanations that DNV considers necessary to give limited assurance that each Bond continues to meet 
the requirements of the Criteria.
Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted, nothing has come to our attention that causes us 
to believe that, for the financial year 2024-25, the YES Bank Green Bonds issued in February 2015 and 
August 2015 are not, in all material respects, in accordance with the requirements of ICMA Green Bond 
Principles, 2021 and Clause 2.1 of Chapter IX-Green Debt Securities of Operational Circular by SEBI 
2021.”
DNV has reviewed the impact reporting metrics associated with the current reporting period including 
verification of a sample of calculations, references and values. Based on the limited assurance 
procedures conducted, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that, for the financial 
year 2024-25, the impact reporting metrics are not, in all material respects reasonable and correct.
For DNV Business Assurance India Pvt. Ltd.
Mumbai, India / 17 April 2025
Name – Roshni Sarage
Lead Verifier
Ankita Parab - Verifier
Name – Jerus D’Silva
Assurance Reviewer
Sarage, 
Roshni
Date: 2025.04.17 
13:40:09 +05'30'
232
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Page 6 of 7
About DNV
Driven by our purpose of safeguarding life, property and the environment, DNV enables organisations to advance the safety 
and sustainability of their business. Combining leading technical and operational expertise, risk methodology and in-depth 
industry knowledge, we empower our customers’ decisions and actions with trust and confidence. We continuously invest in 
research and collaborative innovation to provide customers and society with operational and technological foresight. With our
origins stretching back to 1864, our reach today is global. Operating in more than 100 countries, our 16,000 professionals are 
dedicated to helping customers make the world safer, smarter and greener.
233
233
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Page 7 of 7
Annexure I: Verified Yes Bank Green Bonds Proceeds utilization against Bond Issuance Size 
of INR 1,000 Cr (February 2015)
Proceeds Utilization Against Bond Issuance Size of INR 1000 Cr (February 2015)
Sr.
No 
Project 
Location
Description
Proceeds 
utilization 
against
Total Fund 
Based 
Utilization, 
INR Crs
(as on 24th
February,
2025)
Attributed 
Estimated1 positive 
E&S impacts –
Annualized 
potential CO2
Emission Avoidance
(tCO2/yr)
1
Maharashtra
10 MW wind energy 
project
Bond Issuance 
Size of INR 
1,000 Cr 
(February 2015)
1.620
371
2
Andhra 
Pradesh/ 
Rajasthan
105 MW wind energy 
project in Andhra 
Pradesh and 50.4 MW 
in Rajasthan
Bond Issuance 
Size of INR 
1,000 Cr 
(February 2015)
190.750
55,173
3
Maharashtra
15.5 MW solar energy 
project 
Bond Issuance 
Size of INR 
1,000 Cr 
(February 2015)
59.236
16,982
4
Gujarat
18.34 MW solar energy 
project and 17.60 MW 
wind energy project 
Bond Issuance 
Size of INR 
1,000 Cr 
(February 2015)
149.536
34,151
5
Rajasthan
4.8 MW solar energy 
project
Bond Issuance 
Size of INR 
1,000 Cr 
(February 2015)
24.429
1,250
6
Gujarat
5 MW solar energy 
project and 4.4 MW 
wind energy project 
Bond Issuance 
Size of INR 
1,000 Cr 
(February 2015)
49.107
9,486
7
Gujarat
6.67 MW solar energy 
project and 6.60 MW 
wind energy project 
Bond Issuance 
Size of INR 
1,000 Cr 
(February 2015)
69.840
15,969
8
Rajasthan
300 MW solar energy 
project
Bond Issuance 
Size of INR 
1,000 Cr 
(February 2015)
417.406
135,492
9
Gujarat
250.8 MW wind energy 
project
Bond Issuance 
Size of INR 
1,000 Cr 
(February 2015)
38.076
2,713
1000.000
271,588
1 The attributed CO2 emission avoidance for individual projects have been calculated based on the methodology 
document outlined in the document PCAF (2022) (The Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard Part A: Financed 
Emissions, Second Edition) and CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector User Guide Version 20.0 dated 
December 2024 (published by the Central Electricity Authority of India) along with other relevant factors such as 
project PLF/CUF estimates, installed project capacity, resultant annual unit generation etc.
234
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Annexure 5
CONSERVATION 
OF 
ENERGY, 
TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS 
AND OUTGO
A. 	 Conservation of Energy
1.	
The steps taken or impact on conservation of energy:
	
The Bank has completed its migration to 100% 
light-emitting diode (LED) fixtures in all its offices. 
The Bank is in the process of phasing out air conditioning 
(AC) systems that use ozone depleting coolants and 
replace ACs that are more than 10 years old with energy 
efficient (star rated) systems that use eco-friendly 
coolants, thus reducing its environmental footprint.
2.	
The steps taken by the Bank for utilising alternate 
sources of energy:
	
In line with its commitment to align with the net zero 
pathways suggested by the UN’s Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change, the Bank has pledged to 
reduce Green House Gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 
2 emissions) from its operations to net zero by 2030. 
To achieve its net zero target, the Bank plans to migrate 
most of its facilities to renewable energy. Currently, the 
Bank’s corporate office YES BANK House, Fintech Centre 
at Airoli, Navi Mumbai, and R-Tech Park, Goregaon along 
with 50 Branches in Mumbai have been switched to 
renewable energy.
3.	
The capital investment on energy conservation 
equipment:
	
` 4.68 crore was spent during the current financial year on 
energy conservation including AC retrofitting and signage 
replacements at corporate offices and branch locations.
B. 	 TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION
	
Modern technology is purpose-driven, centered on a 
robust foundation of key principles such as efficacy, 
efficiency, sustainability, scalability, agility, compliance, 
strategic transformation initiatives, and innovation. 
The Bank leverages these foundational elements to 
enhance the experience for all stakeholders. By integrating 
these principles, we ensure that our services are not 
only effective but also adaptable and forward-thinking. 
Our strategic initiatives and innovative approaches 
are aimed at continuously improving and exceeding 
stakeholder expectations, fostering a culture of excellence 
and long-term success. Through this commitment, we 
strive to deliver superior value and service, reinforcing 
our dedication to stakeholder satisfaction.
I. 	
EFFORTS TOWARD TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION AND 
THE BENEFITS DERIVED
	
Our Bank’s technology absorption and strategy is based 
on the following broad principles that are in-step with 
the business strategy.
	
1.	
Delivering Sustainable and Scalable Ecosystem:
	
	
The 
Bank's 
infrastructure, 
applications, 
and 
service ecosystem are meticulously designed 
and regularly evaluated to align with medium and 
long-term goals, ensuring scalability, resilience, and 
availability. This approach includes:
	
	
•	
Design Principles and Code Optimization: 
Employing robust design principles and 
optimizing code to enhance efficiency and 
incorporate composable, reusable services.
	
	
•	
Sustainability Focus: Key servicing and 
system of record platforms are developed 
with sustainability in mind, selecting data 
center environments that are energy-efficient 
and highly resilient.
	
	
•	
Scalability Considerations: In today's dynamic 
digital landscape, scalability is paramount. 
The Bank continuously enhances system 
capabilities through vertical and horizontal 
scaling, 
architecture 
optimization, 
and 
advanced 
data 
processing 
frameworks. 
This ensures the ability to manage increasing 
workloads, user bases, and data volumes 
while 
maintaining 
high 
performance, 
reliability, and efficiency.
	
	
By integrating these elements, the Bank is 
committed to delivering a sustainable and scalable 
ecosystem that meets the evolving needs of 
all stakeholders.
	
2.	
Efficiency:
	
	
Efficiency in technology at the Bank is a continuous 
and 
evolving 
process 
aimed 
at 
optimizing 
operational workflows and building automation 
to achieve maximum output with minimal 
input. 
This 
involves 
periodically 
reimagining 
processes to drive effectiveness and efficiencies. 
Key initiatives include:
	
	
•	
Robotic Process Automation (RPA) and 
AI Integration: The Bank has launched a 
prioritized program to aggressively implement 
RPA tools infused with AI for key operational 
235
235
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
workflows. This enhances process automation 
and efficiency.
	
	
•	
Straight Through Processing (STP): Enabling 
STP with appropriate checks and balances 
is being embedded across operational and 
service lifecycles, integrating with enterprise 
risk systems to ensure seamless and 
efficient processing.
	
	
•	
Streamlining and Automation Initiatives: 
Multiple initiatives across Operations, Credit, 
and Technology Operations are underway to 
streamline workflows, automate repetitive 
tasks, and improve performance.
	
	
•	
Cost Savings and Productivity: Efficiency 
leads to significant cost savings, increased 
productivity, and better resource utilization, 
allowing the Bank to respond with agility to 
market changes and customer demands.
	
	
•	
Low Code/No Code Platforms: The Bank has 
adopted the latest tools, such as low code/
no code (rapid application development) 
platforms, to build software with minimal 
hand-coding. These platforms use visual 
interfaces 
and 
pre-built 
components, 
promoting collaboration, innovation, and 
faster time-to-market for software projects.
	
	
By focusing on these areas, the Bank ensures that 
its technology operations are efficient, responsive, 
and capable of meeting the evolving needs of 
its stakeholders.
	
3.	
Governance / Compliance / Security:
	
	
Ensuring compliance and security by design is 
a key focus area for our sustainability efforts. 
Adhering to evolving regulatory expectations across 
system processes, data storage, and customer 
service enablement is non-negotiable. The Bank 
ensures that its platform and technology solutions 
comply with industry-specific requirements, such 
as data localization, tokenization, PA DSS, and PCI 
DSS. Additionally, robust security measures are 
implemented to protect sensitive data and mitigate 
cybersecurity risks.
	
	
As part of its multi-layered governance process, 
the maturity of the organization's technology 
processes, 
security 
framework, 
and 
data 
management is managed through a three-layered 
defense approach. This includes:
	
	
•	
Compliance 
Adherence: 
Ensuring 
all 
platform and technology solutions meet 
industry-specific compliance requirements.
	
	
•	
Robust Security Measures: Implementing 
comprehensive security measures to protect 
sensitive data and mitigate cybersecurity risks.
	
	
•	
Three-Layered Defense Approach: Managing 
the maturity of technology processes, security 
frameworks, and data management through a 
structured, multi-layered governance process.
	
	
The Bank's security framework includes multiple 
capabilities such as Distributed Denial of Service 
(DDoS) protection, Database Activity Monitoring 
(DAM), System Information and Event Management 
(SIEM), Data Loss Prevention (DLP), Identity and 
Access Management (IDAM), patching tools, and 
cloud security management using industry-leading 
tools. 
Several 
high-priority 
and 
focused 
programs are underway to further enhance our 
security posture.
	
	
By integrating these elements, the Bank is 
committed to maintaining a secure, compliant, and 
resilient technology environment that meets the 
highest standards of governance and security.
	
4.	
Strategic and Transformational Initiatives:
	
	
The Bank has embarked on multiple transformational 
initiatives aimed at supporting growth, driving 
efficiency, and managing technology obsolescence. 
These initiatives are broadly categorized as follows:
	
	
•	
Customer-Centric 
Unified 
Onboarding 
Programme: Developing a comprehensive 
onboarding program focused on enhancing 
the customer experience.
	
	
•	
AI-Powered 
Data 
Analytics 
and 
Next-Generation 
Enterprise 
Warehouse: 
Implementing 
advanced 
data 
analytics 
powered 
by 
AI 
and 
establishing 
a 
next-generation enterprise data warehouse.
	
	
•	
Modernization 
of 
Core 
Systems 
and 
Orchestration Platforms: Upgrading core 
systems of record and orchestration platforms 
to improve functionality and performance.
	
	
•	
API-Led Expansion with Partners: Driving 
expansion through API-led integration with 
partners across business lines, utilizing a 
sandbox-led agile integration approach.
	
	
•	
Modernizing SME and Corporate Banking 
Capabilities: 
Enhancing 
the 
capabilities 
for 
SME 
and 
Corporate 
Banking 
by 
developing 
next-generation 
online 
and 
mobile-led solutions.
236
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
	
	
As we undertake these strategic initiatives, our 
focus is also on enabling an agile delivery ecosystem 
(DevOps), including testing and process automation 
with adequate checkpoints. This approach ensures 
that we remain responsive to market changes and 
customer needs while maintaining high standards 
of efficiency and innovation.
	
5.	
Innovation - Banking for the future:
	
	
As a forward-thinking institution, the Bank 
continuously seeks to embrace next-generation 
technologies and evaluates their potential for 
mainstream adoption through a structured, value 
proposition-led approach. Key initiatives include:
	
	
•	
Innovation and Development Center of 
Excellence (CoE): As part of the Bank's IT 
strategy, an Innovation and Development 
CoE has been established to promote 
self-sufficiency, encourage the adoption of 
new technologies (including AI and Generative 
AI), scale development efforts, and reduce 
external dependencies.
	
	
•	
Proof of Concepts (PoCs): The Innovation 
Center is actively developing and testing PoCs 
using Generative AI to enhance customer 
services across various channels.
	
	
By fostering innovation and leveraging cutting-edge 
technologies, the Bank aims to stay ahead of 
industry trends and deliver superior value to its 
customers and stakeholders.
II. 	
IN CASE OF IMPORTED TECHNOLOGY (IMPORTED DURING THE LAST THREE YEARS RECKONED FROM THE BEGINNING OF 
THE FINANCIAL YEAR):
*Details of Technology Imported
Year of Import
Whether the 
Technology been 
fully absorbed 
if not fully absorbed, 
areas where absorption 
has not taken place and 
the reasons thereof
Cornerstone OnDemand International Limited
2021
Yes
NA
Insightsoftware, LLC
2021
Yes
NA
Datametica Solutions Inc.
2022
Yes
NA
Amrut Software Pvt Ltd (Atlassian Corporation Plc)
2024
Yes
NA
OutSystems Singapore Pte Ltd
2023
Yes
NA
Bolero International Limited
2023
Yes
NA
CSC Corporate Domains, Inc.
2023
Yes
NA
Technology Nexus International AB
2023
Yes
NA
SGX FX Systems Singapore Pte. Ltd.
2024
Yes
NA
APNIC Pty Ltd
2024
Yes
NA
iValue InfoSolutions Pvt. Ltd.
2023
Yes
NA
CS INFOCOMM PRIVATE LIMITED
2024
Yes
NA
	
*The Bank as a part of its Business Strategy and enhancements of its technological capabilities has done multiple import of 
advanced technologies. The imported technologies have been fully absorbed and there are continuous developments being 
done on these imports.
III. 	 THE EXPENDITURE INCURRED ON RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT: Nil
C.	
FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO
	
The Foreign Exchange earned in terms of actual inflows during the year and the Foreign Exchange outgo during the year in 
terms of actual outflows.
	
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank earned ` 11,311.12 million and spent ` 17,719.40 million in foreign 
currency. This does not include foreign currency cash flows in derivatives and foreign currency exchange transactions.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
YES BANK Limited
Date: July 19, 2025
Place: Mumbai, India
Prashant Kumar 
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN: 07562475)
Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
Chairman
(DIN: 03341633)
237
237
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Corporate Governance Report
(The Report on Corporate Governance for the year ended March 31, 2025)
In compliance with Regulation 34(3) and Clause (C) of Schedule 
V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“SEBI LODR”), a Report on Corporate Governance for the 
Financial Year 2024-25 is presented below:
1.	
BANK’S PHILOSOPHY ON CODE OF GOVERNANCE
	
At YES BANK, our commitment to robust corporate 
governance remains unwavering and purpose driven. 
We believe that strong Corporate Governance is 
fundamental to achieving sustainable growth and 
maintaining stakeholder trust. We continue to uphold 
our differentiated approach, grounded in sound 
governance practices based on conscience, openness, 
integrity, fairness, professionalism, and accountability. 
These 
guiding 
principles 
form 
the 
cornerstone 
stakeholders confidence and thereby paving the 
way for its long-term success. The Bank believes in 
sustainable corporate growth that emanates from the 
top leadership and flows down through the organisation 
to the various stakeholders. This is reflected in its sound 
financial system, enhanced market reputation and 
improved efficiency.
	
Transparency and Accountability are the fundamental 
principles that remain central to our sound Corporate 
Governance ethos, ensuring that the Bank is managed 
and monitored responsibly, with a strong focus on 
“creating and sharing value”.
	
The Bank consistently upgrades its systems, policies, and 
processes to meet the evolving demands of a dynamic 
and challenging business environment. We strive to 
maintain robust internal controls and enhance oversight 
mechanism on operations, thereby strengthening 
transparency and accountability. We view governance 
not merely as a regulatory requirement, but as core value 
that drives our decision-making process, stakeholder 
engagement, and long term strategic vision. The Board 
remains committed to continuous improvements and 
to upholding the highest standards of governance in 
alignment with regulatory expectations and market 
best practices.
	
At YES BANK, we maintain a strong emphasis on 
timely disclosures, transparent communication of 
material information and sound risk management 
practices ensuring that accurate information is shared 
regarding the financial performance, operations, key 
developments, material events as well as the leadership 
and governance of the Bank.
	
In recent years, stakeholders and regulatory feedback 
on Corporate governance has prompted the Bank to 
strengthen its governance and disclosure standards. 
We have taken these inputs constructively and 
implemented measures to enhance the effectiveness 
of our governance framework. As we move forward, 
the Bank remains fully committed to continuous 
improvement and to upholding the highest standards of 
corporate governance.
	
Environmental, Social & Governance Rating
	
Environmental, 
Social 
and 
Governance 
(ESG) 
performance refers to the non-financial performance of 
an organisation on crucial issues such as climate change, 
environmental 
sustainability, 
social 
responsibility, 
ethics, institutional frameworks, and transparency, 
amongst others.
	
Globally, there is an emerging awareness that an 
organisation’s 
overall 
performance 
is 
linked 
to 
non-financial, yet financially material issues, which 
pose significant material risks to long term returns. This 
has led to the emergence of ESG, a set of non-financial 
metrics or parameters, which along with financial metrics, 
provide a holistic assessment of an organisation’s impact 
on three fronts - Profits, People and Planet.
	
YES BANK views the emergence of ESG as an important 
development for the corporate sector both from an 
ethical and financial perspective. The Bank continuously 
strives to integrate ESG principles into its core business 
strategy, adopt best practices in ESG and align its business 
to global frameworks on sustainability such as the 
United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 
the Paris Climate Agreement, and the Principles for 
Responsible Banking (PRB). The Bank has set up a robust 
governance structure for integrating ESG considerations 
into its business by setting up an Executive level 
Sustainability Council, chaired by the Managing Director 
& CEO, which oversees the implementation of the Bank’s 
sustainability strategy and performance. The Bank 
also has a Board level Corporate Social Responsibility 
and Environmental, Social & Governance (CSR&ESG) 
238
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Committee, which oversees the Sustainability Council 
and the Bank’s overall ESG agenda.
	
YES BANK continues to disclose its ESG performance 
in line with national and international benchmark 
disclosure 
frameworks 
such 
as 
the 
Business 
Responsibility & Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) and 
BRSR Core Disclosure Framework; Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Standards, Integrated Reporting (IR) 
Framework and the recommendations of the Taskforce 
on 
Climate-related 
Financial 
Disclosures 
(TCFD). 
The Bank has consequently earned a leadership position 
in prestigious global ESG ratings.
	
In FY 2024-25, for the third year in a row, YES BANK 
achieved the highest S&P Global ESG score amongst 
Indian banks based on the S&P Global Corporate 
Sustainability Assessment (CSA) 2024 and is the only 
Indian Bank to be included in S&P Global Sustainability 
Yearbook 2025. The Bank’s S&P Global ESG score stood 
at 73 (out of 100) and its S&P Global CSA Score stood 
at 72 (out of 100), as of November 07, 2024. The S&P 
Global CSA is considered one of the most comprehensive 
and granular assessments of an organisation’s ESG 
performance, taking into account up to 1,000 data 
points on an organisation’s performance across topics 
such as Climate Strategy, Operational Eco-Efficiency, 
Financial Inclusion, Human Capital Development, Human 
Rights, Corporate Governance, Risk Management, 
amongst others.
	
For the third year in a row, YES BANK scored ‘A-’ 
Leadership Band by CDP for its 2024 Climate Change 
disclosures, retaining its position as the highest scored 
Indian Bank for climate disclosures. CDP annually 
provides scores to global organisations across sectors, 
based on their climate-related performance. YES BANK 
earned the ‘Leadership Band’ (A/ A-) in 11 out of 17 
climate-related disclosure categories, including, areas 
such as climate governance, emissions reporting 
(scope 1, and 2), emission reduction initiatives, and 
portfolio impact.
	
In June 2025, for the third consecutive year, YES BANK 
continued to be included as an index constituent in the 
FTSE4Good Index Series. The Bank also continues to 
feature in the MSCI ACWI Low Carbon Leaders Index and 
ACWI Climate Change Index, among others.
	
Governance Structure
	
YES BANK’s Corporate Governance Structure has 
been designed keeping in view of the regulatory 
and 
business 
requirements, 
which 
provides 
a 
comprehensive framework to (i) enhance accountability 
to shareholders and other stakeholders, (ii) ensure timely 
implementations of the plans and accurate disclosures 
of all material matters, (iii) deal fairly with shareholders 
and other stakeholder interests, and (iv) maintain high 
standards of business ethics and integrity.
2.	
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(a)	
Composition and Category of Directors1:
	
As on March 31, 2025, and as on date of this report, the 
Board of the Bank comprises of Thirteen (13) Directors 
including One (1) Non-Executive (Part-time) Chairman 
(Independent Director), One (1) Managing Director & 
Chief Executive Officer, Two (2) Executive Directors, Six 
(6) other Independent Directors, Two (2) Non-Executive 
Nominee Directors of State Bank of India, an equity 
investor and One (1) Non-Executive Director, Nominee of 
Verventa Holdings Limited, an equity investor.
	
The Bank has optimum combination of Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors with Independent Directors 
constituting more than one-half of its total strength. 
The Board is chaired by Non-Executive, Part-time 
Chairman, Independent Director and as on the date 
of this report, also has Two (2) Women Independent 
Directors. Accordingly, the composition of the Board is in 
conformity with the Articles of Association of the Bank, 
the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, 
(“the Act”) the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, SEBI LODR 
as amended, from time to time and other applicable laws.
	
All the Directors of the Bank are persons of eminence 
from diverse fields and bring long banking experience, 
professionalism, qualification, knowledge, skill sets, 
track record, integrity, expertise and diversity of 
experience as required in the banking business and 
thereby ensuring the best interest of the stakeholders 
and the Bank. The responsibilities of the Board inter-alia, 
include ensuring adequate capitalisation, formulation 
and oversight of overall strategy for the Bank, taking 
new initiatives, formulating policies, performance review, 
monitoring of plans, review of policies and procedures.
1GRI 2-9, GRI 2-11
239
239
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
The details of the Board of Directors, their category till date of the Report are as follows:
Sr. No. Name & DIN of the Director
Category
1.
Mr. Prashant Kumar
(DIN: 07562475)
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
2.
Dr. Rajan Pental
(DIN: 08432870)
Executive Director
3.
Mr. Manish Jain*
(DIN: 10774800)
Executive Director
4.
Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
(DIN: 03341633)
Non-Executive Part-time Chairman, Independent Director
5.
Mr. Atul Malik  
(DIN: 07872539)
Independent Director
6.
Ms. Rekha Murthy
(DIN: 07825183)
Independent Director
7.
Mr. Sharad Sharma
(DIN: 05160057)
Independent Director
8.
Mr. Sandeep Tewari#
(DIN: 09623300)
Non-Executive - Nominee Director of State Bank of India
9.
Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar#  
(DIN: 09623382)
Non-Executive - Nominee Director of State Bank of India
10.
Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao
(DIN: 01245772)
Independent Director
11.
Ms. Nandita Gurjar
(DIN: 01318683)
Independent Director
12.
Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani
(DIN: 00072812)
Independent Director
13.
Ms. Shweta Jalan$^@
(DIN: 00291675)
Non-Executive - Non Independent Director; Nominee of Verventa 
Holdings Limited
14.
Mr. Shivakumar Dega@@
(DIN: 00364444)
Additional Director (Non-Executive - Non Independent Director; 
Nominee of Verventa Holdings Limited)
	
*Appointed as Executive Director w.e.f. December 11, 2024.
	
#Period of office made as not liable to retire by rotation by the Board of Directors at its meeting held on June 23, 2023.
	
$Period of office made as liable to retire by rotation by the Board of Directors at its meeting held on June 23, 2023.
	
^Retired and re-appointed at the 20th Annual General Meeting of the Bank held on August 23, 2024.
	
@ Resigned as a Director of the Bank effective upon noting of her resignation by the Board at its Meeting held on June 27, 2025. 
	
@@ Appointed as Additional Director (Non-Executive – Non Independent Director) effective upon his appointment approved by the Board at 
its Meeting held on June 27, 2025, after noting resignation of Ms. Shweta Jalan.
240
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
	
Profile of Board of Directors:
	
Mr. Prashant Kumar
	
Mr. Prashant Kumar was appointed as Managing 
Director & Chief Executive Officer of YES BANK post 
Reconstruction of the Bank in March 2020. He has been 
re-appointed in October 2022 for a further period of 
3 years. Under his leadership, the Bank embarked on 
transformation journey to emerge as a re-energised, 
re-capitalised and recalibrated organisation, while 
continuing to fulfill its unwavering commitment towards 
its customers and stakeholders. This has been one of the 
rare instances, where an Indian banking institution has 
been a real turnaround from the brink of collapse within 
an extremely short time frame of just one year.
	
Prior to joining YES BANK, Mr. Kumar was Deputy 
Managing Director & CFO of State Bank of India (SBI), 
India’s largest Bank. He served SBI in various capacities 
and has a rich experience in diverse fields ranging 
from credit to human resources. He joined the SBI as 
Probationary Officer in 1983 and during his 34 years of 
service with SBI, he has held various key assignments 
including Dy. Managing Director (HR) & Corporate 
Development Officer, Dy. Managing Director & Chief 
Operating Officer, Chief General Manager, Kolkata 
Circle, General Manager, Local Head Office Mumbai, 
DGM (Industrial relations) and faculty in SBI’s Apex 
Training Institute - State Bank Academy, Gurugram.
	
He holds degree in science and a law from 
Delhi University.
	
Dr. Rajan Pental
	
Dr. Rajan Pental is presently serving as the Executive 
Director at YES BANK and had joined the Bank in 
November, 2015. He carries a rich experience of 3 
decades, in the financial services industry. His portfolio 
in YES BANK includes Branch Banking - Retail, Affluent 
Banking, NRI Banking, YES Private, Spectrum Banking, 
Retail Assets, SME Banking, Rural & Agriculture 
Banking, Retail Trade & Forex, Third Party Distribution, 
Marketing & Corporate Communication, Corporate 
Social Responsibility, Retail Collections, Retail Service 
Excellence & Customer Experience, Liabilities Product 
Management, Credit Cards, Merchant Acquisition, 
Banking Operations, Business & Technology Solutions.
	
Chief Operating Officer, Chief Information Officer, 
Chief Marketing Officer and Country Heads of Retail 
Banking suite report to him. He is also designated as 
Non-Executive Director of YES Securities.
	
Dr. Rajan is skilled at developing strategies to increase 
organisational effectiveness and efficiency, implementing 
innovative solutions to streamline processes, and 
driving continuous improvement initiatives. He has 
been a pioneer in Mobility services with technology 
to create differentiating product and services and has 
been recognised for these initiatives. He has a proven 
track record of successfully leading teams to achieve 
organisational objectives, increasing profitability and 
maintaining positive relationships with stakeholders. 
	
The details of changes amongst the Directors during the FY 2024-25 are as follows:-
Sr. No. Name of Director
Category
Details of Change
1
Mr. Sunil Kaul
(DIN: 05102910)
Non-Executive - Non Independent 
Director; Nominee of CA Basque 
Investments
Ceased w.e.f October 11, 2024 due to resignation.
2
Mr. Manish Jain  
(DIN: 10774800)
Executive Director
Appointment approved by RBI on December 11, 2024, for a period of 
three years
Additional Director
Appointment effective from December 11, 2024 (Based on the 
recommendations of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee, 
approved by Board of Directors on September 10, 2024 effective from 
the date of receipt of approval of RBI as Executive Director)
Director
Appointment approved by shareholders on February 28, 2025
Executive Director
Appointment approved by shareholders on February 28, 2025 for a 
period of three years w.e.f. December 11, 2024 to December 10, 2027
	
Note: As per the clarification received from Reserve Bank of India, the Bank is still under YES BANK Limited Reconstruction Scheme 2020 
(“Scheme”) till confirmation is received from Reserve Bank of India that the Bank is out of Scheme. However, the Bank has been ensuring 
compliance with the provisions of SEBI LODR on Board composition with regard to minimum number of Independent Directors, Committee 
composition with respect to Nomination & Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee, Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee and Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental, Social & Governance Committee etc.
241
241
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As a Co-Chair for Assocham and part of initiatives led by 
FICCI, he is passionate about engaging with communities 
and advancing several industry initiatives.
	
Dr. Rajan brings with him rich experience in Retail 
Banking and building new businesses. He has held 
positions of increasing responsibilities in HDFC Bank 
from June 2001 to October 2015 (14 years). In his last 
role at HDFC Bank he was designated as Business Head 
- Secured Loans & Rural Sales (Vehicle Loans - Retail 
& Wholesale). Dr. Rajan was instrumental in initiating, 
setting up and institutionalizing the Retail Assets 
Business for the HDFC Bank in the Northern region. 
He has worked extensively in creating and executing the 
Sales and Distribution strategy of these businesses since 
inception at HDFC Bank.
	
Dr. Rajan has been associated with Tata Finance, 
Esanda Finance & Leasing Ltd (ANZ Grindlays Bank 
Ltd), Escorts Limited and Industrial Chemicals Ltd. 
He is a B.Sc. from Magadh University, Patna (1986) and 
has done his MBA from Indian Institute of Business 
Management (1988). He has also completed an Executive 
Programme for Development of Strategic Skills from IIM 
Calcutta in 2004-05.
	
He also holds a Honorary Ph.D. (Philosophiae Doctor) 
in Universalisation of Banking & Digitalisation UNESCO 
ISCED level 8 awarded by Ecole Superieur Robert de 
Sorbon in 2024.
	
Mr. Manish Jain
	
Mr. Manish Jain is presently serving as the Executive 
Director at YES BANK and has been in YES BANK since 
September, 2023. He spearheads the Corporate & 
Wholesale Banking business at YES BANK. His portfolios 
in YES BANK includes the Corporate & Wholesale Banking 
business encompassing the Bank’s Large Corporates, 
Emerging Local Corporates, Multinational Corporates, 
Financial Institutions, Government Banking, Project 
Finance, Loan Syndication, Transaction Banking, IFSC 
Banking Unit, Corporate & Government Advisory, Food & 
Agri Strategic Advisory & Research, Business Economics 
and Financial Markets.
	
Mr. Manish Jain comes with three decades of work 
experience which includes more than 23 years with 
Standard Chartered Bank, where he worked in diverse 
geographical locations throughout India managing full 
range of corporate client segments like Large Local 
Corporates, Strategic Groups, Middle Market Companies, 
Commercial Real Estate, Multinational Corporates, 
Financial Institutions, SMEs, Supply Chain Finance and 
Transaction Banking. Prior to Standard Chartered Bank, 
he has also worked with Ernst & Young Consulting India, 
GE India and Maruti Suzuki.
	
Mr. Manish Jain holds a Post Graduate Diploma in 
Management from IIM Bangalore and is a B. Tech in 
Mechanical Engineering from IIT Delhi.
	
Mr. Manish Jain is an astute banker and hands on 
professional with a deep and diverse exposure to 
Corporate and Wholesale Banking Group with strong 
Client relationships, Credit expertise and Product 
knowledge backed by experience of being in various 
leadership roles over the last 16 years.
	
Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
	
Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi is currently a financial 
sector policy expert and adviser. He advises fintech 
entities, investors and funds on subjects ranging from 
financial regulations and Indian economy.
	
Besides YES BANK, he is an independent director on the 
boards of several entities like financial market, market 
infrastructure, account aggregator, information utility 
and fintech. He is a prolific speaker and covers, including 
these areas, wide range of subjects.
	
He was a Deputy Governor of the Reserve Bank of 
India for three years from 2014 to 2017. He had been 
a seasoned and accomplished central banker for 37 
years. He had a three year secondment to the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), the capital market 
regulator. He also held the charge of Director of the 
Institute for Development and Research in Banking 
Technology, Hyderabad.
	
He has been associated with various committees, 
working groups and task forces, both domestic and 
international. He was one of the initial members of the 
Monetary Policy Committee (MPC). He was a member of 
the Basle Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) and 
the Committee on Global Financial Systems (CGFS), Basle.
	
He has been educated in India and abroad. He has a 
Master’s degree in Economics from the Annamalai 
University, in Tamil Nadu, India. He also has post graduate 
level certificates in Management Information System 
from The American University, Washington DC, USA 
and in Capital Market from the City University of New 
242
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
York, USA. His technical education includes a certificate 
course in System Programming from the IBM Education, 
Sydney, Australia. He also has a certificate in Gandhian 
Thoughts from the Madurai University, Tamil Nadu, India. 
Further, he is Certified Associate of the Indian Institute of 
Banking & Finance (IIBF), formerly known as The Indian 
Institute of Bankers (IIB), possessing skills in accounting 
and banking law.
	
Mr. Atul Malik
	
Mr. Atul Malik is a veteran banker with more than 30 
years of widespread experience.
	
Mr. Malik is currently a Senior Advisor to TPG for 
their financial services portfolio. Previously, he was a 
Senior Advisor to General Atlantic for their financial 
services portfolio.
	
Prior to joining General Atlantic, he was the CEO of 
Maritime Bank, one of the largest private banks in 
Vietnam, from 2012 to 2015 and a Senior Advisor to 
Asia Capital & Advisors, a boutique private equity firm, 
from 2011 to 2012.
	
Between 2007 and 2011, he was the Managing Director/
Regional Head Asia - Private and Business Clients of 
Deutsche Bank with operations covering India, China and 
Vietnam. During this period, he was also a member of 
the DB Asia Pacific Executive Committee and the Global 
Private and Business Clients (PBC) Executive Committee, 
and was nominated as the Non-Executive Director 
of DB China Ltd.
	
During his 20-year-long career at Citibank that 
commenced in 1988 with Citibank India, Mr. Malik held 
a variety of senior roles, the last of which was as the 
Chief Executive Officer of Citibank Hong Kong 
(2004 to 2007).
	
Mr. Malik holds a Master’s Degree in Business 
Administration from the Rice University, USA (1987) and 
B Tech Degree from IIT Bombay (1985).
	
Ms. Rekha Murthy
	
Ms. Rekha Murthy has nearly 30 years of extensive 
global experience in the Technology sector across India, 
Asia Pacific and the USA. Her professional experience 
spans a successful career in cross-functional operations, 
P&L oversight, global sales, new market development, 
strategic marketing and distribution.
	
She has held senior and country leadership roles 
at leading global companies such as IBM, Harvard 
Business School Publishing, Wyse Technology, SAP, 
PeopleSoft, Digital Equipment Corporation and Korn 
Ferry International.
	
She is currently engaged with start-ups in an advisory 
role and as a mentor.
	
Her areas of interest are building leadership and 
management skills, global strategy, business and 
technology transformation and change management. 
She 
has 
extensive 
experience 
in 
advising 
and 
providing technology solutions to large enterprises 
across industries.
	
Ms. Murthy is an alumna of Harvard Business School 
and Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore and 
holds a Bachelor’s degree in Engineering, Electronics and 
Telecommunications from Bangalore University.
	
Mr. Sharad Sharma
	
Mr. Sharad Sharma is a career banker with over forty 
years of banking experience. He was Managing Director of 
State Bank of Mysore, from August, 2012 to April, 2016, 
where he was seconded from State Bank of India (SBI). 
He joined Union Bank of India as Probationary Officer 
(PO) in 1975 before joining SBI in September, 1977.
	
He has held various assignments across all fields of a 
banking organisation, including exposure to international 
banking, when he was posted in SBI’s 100%-owned 
Canadian banking subsidiary. His major interest has been 
primarily in the corporate and retail banking (Personal 
& SME segments).
	
His major specialization has primarily been in the 
corporate banking segment, where he has spent close 
to 20 years’ of his banking career. In this area, he has 
been extensively exposed to large- and mid-corporate 
financing, both at the operational and policy-formulation 
level, besides in rehabilitation of weak / sick large 
corporates, including under NCLT.
	
He also headed the Project Finance SBU of State 
Bank of India at the corporate level, with key focus on 
infrastructure and wholesale lending. He also headed 
SBI’s Global Markets Unit dealing with the mid-and 
back-office functions / correspondent banking of the 
Bank’s forex operations.
243
243
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
He 
drove 
policy-level 
intervention 
in 
the 
Risk 
Management area for SBI, where he headed the Risk 
Management Department, at the corporate level. 
As Chief General Manager, Chennai he primarily drove 
the Personal and SME businesses for SBI’s Tamil Nadu 
and Puducherry operations during 2011- 2012. In his 
role as CGM, SBI, Chennai & MD, State Bank of Mysore, 
made a substantial portion of their CSR investments in 
the ESG sector, through NGOs and SHGs.
	
In his nearly 4 years’ role as MD, State Bank of Mysore, 
his key learning had been in managing the external 
environment, through interface with the regulatory, 
social sector and State & Central Govt agencies. 
As the functional head of the Bank’s Board, he was 
directly responsible for maintaining a high level of 
corporate governance, policy formulation and improved 
P&L of that Bank.
	
Mr. Sharma had been active in the banking industry, 
being in the Managing Committee of the Indian Banks 
Association, besides the Governing Board of Indian 
Institute of Banking & Finance.
	
Attended senior / top management training programs at 
the IIMs (Ahmedabad & Lucknow), Duke University and 
Booth School, University of Chicago.
	
Attended programs on IT & Cyber Security conducted 
by IDBRT, Hyderabad and on AML & KYC by CAFRAL, 
Mumbai for Board members of Banks.
	
He has a Bachelor of Arts degree and is also a Certified 
Associate of the Indian Institute of Bankers.
	
Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao
	
Mr. Sadashiv S. Rao was the CEO of NIIF Infrastructure 
Finance Limited (NIIF IFL), an NBFC lending to operating 
infrastructure projects till 30th June 2022. He has over 
38 years of experience in project finance, investment 
banking and advisory services, of which, last 8 years has 
been at the helm at NIIF IFL as the founding CEO. His role 
included building the team, working with regulators to 
enable smooth growth, leveraging on relationship with 
large industrial groups and managing the sale of equity 
of the company to the sovereign fund of India - NIIF, from 
the erstwhile owners – IDFC in 2019.
	
As a responsible financial institution, NIIF IFL had rolled 
out an E&S policy that adhered to the IFC performance 
standards and wherever necessary, applicable Indian 
national, state and local E&S regulatory requirements.
	
Prior to NIIF IFL, Mr. Rao has worked for 18 years, as 
one of the early senior employees of IDFC, where he last 
held the position of Chief Risk Officer. He has an unique 
experience of being in leadership roles, in both the 
business function as well as the risk function.
	
He has earlier worked with ICICI Limited in project 
finance, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited and 
Procter & Gamble.
	
Mr. Rao served as an Independent Director and was the 
Chairperson of the Audit Committee of Indraprastha 
Gas Limited. He was also a Director on the Boards of 
Sharekhan Limited and Asset Reconstruction Company 
(India) Limited. In addition, he was a Director on several 
IDFC group companies including IDFC Alternatives Limited 
- the private equity arm of IDFC and IDFC Securities 
Limited - the investment bank and broking arm of IDFC.
	
He was a member of the committee constituted by 
Government of India, to set up Power Trading Corporation.
	
Mr. Rao holds an MBA from the Indian Institute of 
Management, Bangalore and a B.Tech. degree from 
Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur.
	
Ms. Nandita Gurjar
	
Ms. Nandita Gurjar is a Technologist turned HR 
professional. Ms. Gurjar’s experience in mainstream IT 
spans software development, general management 
and consulting. She started her career at Wipro 
InfoTech in 1992 as a software programmer and 
handled multiple technical responsibilities, in various 
functions like Software Coding and Testing, Programme 
documentation and Quality. She joined Infosys Limited 
in December 1999 to form the Learning & Development 
wing and set-up the Leadership institute. In 2007, she 
took over as the Global Head HR for Infosys Group, 
managing over 150,000 employees for the next seven 
years. In this role she led the Infosys People strategy and 
Employer branding across its global footprint.
	
Ms. Nandita was the member of World Economic 
Forum (WEF) - Global Advisory Council on New Models 
of Leadership. She has also been featured as “25 Most 
Powerful Professional Women in India” in Business 
Today magazine.
244
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
	
Currently, Ms. Nandita is an Independent Director in listed 
company(ies). She is an Advisor to Startups and consults 
with organisations on HR strategies and execution.
	
Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani
	
CA Sanjay Khemani is a Practicing Chartered Accountant 
with ~ 35 years of post-qualification experience. He is a 
senior partner of M/s M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered 
Accountants. He is heading the BFSI practice of the Firm 
since last ~ 25 years and have been involved in providing 
assurance, taxation, risk consultancy, management 
consultancy services to large Regulated Entities.
	
He has an excellent academic track record. He was all 
India topper in CA final exam and was awarded gold 
medal and adjudged as the best student of the year. He is 
also a qualified Company Secretary and has completed 
Diploma in Information System Audit from ICAI and 
Certificate Course from ICAI on Forensic Accounting & 
Fraud Prevention, Certificate Course from ICAI on Ind AS 
and also Certificate Course from ICAI on Valuation. He is 
also a IBBI registered valuer for Securities and Financial 
Assets class and is also a member of Institute of Social 
Auditors of India.
	
He also serves/served as an independent director on 
the Board of Regulated Entities (Bank, Housing Finance 
Company, Asset Reconstruction Co., NBFC).
	
He has addressed various seminars on professional 
subjects and has been contributing to ICAI on 
technical matters.
	
He has been actively associated with various NGOs for 
social service.
	
Mr. Sandeep Tewari
	
Mr. Sandeep Tewari is a highly experienced advisor who 
excels in strategic governance, evaluation of Business 
Operations and Risk Management. He is a skilled, 
enterprising professional with extensive experience 
in financial services, accomplished in envisioning and 
realising strategy with sound executive leadership 
accomplishments. He has proven ability to evaluate and 
measure company’s current performance and determine 
steps to enact long-term strategy.
	
Key accomplishments:
	
-	
Contributed immensely towards improving the 
Risk Management in the State Bank of India (SBI) 
specially Operational Risk, Financial Risk & Market 
Risk the Audit Department.
	
-	
Drove the adoption of data analytics for Risk 
Management in credit area of SBI.
	
-	
Re-organised the entire business structure for SBI 
and launched digital banking records resulting in 
compelling advancements in performance.
	
-	
Expanded business portfolio by 150% while leading 
Corporate Account Group of SBI wherein steered 
the Power & Infrastructure Portfolio.
	
-	
Transformed several audit systems by completely 
automating it and created a few data points 
to generate divergence through Core Banking 
Solutions. Through experience in audit, was able 
to substantially improve the risk management 
structure in SBI.
	
-	
Empanelled as Assessor for interviewing candidates 
for Banking Board’s Bureau for CMD, MD&ED level 
positions in the SBI.
	
Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar
	
Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar is a retired banking 
professional with more than 37 years of experience in 
the State Bank group, the largest banking group in India.
	
Mr. Kumar has worked in various facets of banking 
including retail, commercial credit, project finance, risk 
management, treasury etc. He joined the State Bank of 
Travancore in 1984 as a Probationary Officer.
	
Mr. Kumar worked at numerous retail branches as 
Branch Head, Credit Officer etc. He has rich experience 
including top executive roles. He headed the Stressed 
Assets Group of SBI.
	
He retired as the Deputy Managing Director of the 
Commercial Clients Group of SBI in September 2021, 
seeking to continue contributing to the country’s financial 
sector in Board/Advisory roles.
	
Mr. Shivakumar Dega
Mr. 
Shivakumar 
has 
held 
various 
leadership 
positions in Indian and Multi-National Companies. 
Shivakumar (commonly known as Shiv) is associated 
with Advent International, a global private equity firm, 
as Operating Partner and is based out of Gurgaon. 
Before his role at Advent International, he was the 
Group Executive President of Corporate Strategy 
245
245
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
at Aditya Birla Group. Prior to joining Aditya Birla 
Group, Shiv was the Chairperson and Chief Executive 
Officer at PepsiCo Holdings Private Limited in India. 
He also served as the CEO for Emerging Markets at Nokia 
overseeing 92 countries.
Shiv worked at Hindustan Unilever Limited where 
he spent 19 years in sales, marketing, and general 
management positions. In 2003, he joined Philips 
India as Chief Executive Officer of the consumer 
electronics division.
Shiv has graduated from IIT Madras, IIM Calcutta and 
Wharton School of Business.
	
Awards Achievements
•	
AAMO Asian Leadership Award 2020
•	
Indian Business leader of the year 2019 issued by 
KPMG and Horasis Institute
•	
India's 
Top 
10 
Speaker 
issued 
by 
Speak 
in Bureau in 2018
•	
India's Most Trusted CEO 2017 issued by WCRC
	
Notable experiences
•	
Shiv is credited for driving Nokia’s brand from No. 
71 to No. 1 in the country. He was instrumental in 
making Nokia one of the top-most trusted brands.
•	
Apart from overseeing India operations, Shiv 
also 
managed 
PepsiCo’s 
franchise 
business 
across Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Sri Lanka 
and the Maldives.
•	
Shiv has authored multiple books such as “The Art 
of Management” and “The Right Choice”
•	
Shiv has been on the boards of a number of 
Business schools.
•	
Shiv has done close to 40 convocation and 
commencement speeches in various Business and 
Engineering schools.
	
Current / Ex-Directorships and other roles:
•	
Chairman of Board of Directors - Vadilal Industries 
Limited (May ‘25 – Present)
•	
Advisory Board - Power Grid Corporation of India 
(May ‘25 – Present)
•	
Operating 
Partner 
- 
Advent 
International 
(Apr ‘23 – Present)
•	
Director - Restaurant Brands Asia Limited (Burger 
King) (Oct ‘19- Oct 24)
•	
Advisory Board – Multiples PE (2018 – Present)
•	
Director, Phillips India (2004 – 2006)
•	
Independent Director - Godrej Consumer Products 
Limited (2009 – 2017)
•	
Director 
- 
Manjushree 
Technopack 
Limited 
(June ’24 – Mar 25)
•	
Director - Leapfrog Strategy Consulting Private 
Limited (Apr’23 – Present)
•	
Director - ID Freshfood (India) Private Limited 
(Nov ’23 – Present )
•	
Board of Governors - IIM Ahmedabad (2012-2017)
•	
Board Audit -IIM Calcutta (2018-2020)
•	
Board of Governors - IIM Udaipur (2018 onwards)
•	
XLRI 9 (2014 onwards)
•	
Xavier University (2013 onwards)
•	
Board of Governors - SPJIMR (2024 onwards)
•	
Great 
Lakes 
Management 
School 
Advisory 
Board (2024 onwards)
(b)	
Board 
Meetings, 
Attendance 
& 
Committee 
Membership1:
	
During the FY 2024-25, Ten (10) meetings of the Board 
were held on April 27, 2024, May 17, 2024, June 04, 
2024, June 25, 2024, July 20, 2024, September 10, 2024, 
October 26, 2024, November 13, 2024, November 22-23, 
2024 and January 25, 2025. The maximum gap between 
any two Board meetings was less than one hundred and 
twenty (120) days.
1GRI 2-9
246
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
	
The composition of the Board, their status, their attendance at the Board meetings and the last Annual General Meeting 
(AGM), number of other Directorships and Committee Membership(s)/Chairpersonship(s) of each Director as on March 31, 
2025 are as under:
Name
No. of Board 
meetings 
attended/ 
held during 
their tenure
Attendance 
at AGM 
held on 
August 23, 
2024
Number of Directorship in 
unlisted companies
Number of 
Committee 
Memberships 
(Chairpersonship) in 
other companies*
Directorship in other Listed Entity & 
Category
Of Indian 
Public Limited 
Companies
Of other 
Companies#
Mr. Prashant Kumar
10/10
Present
1
0
0
0
Dr. Rajan Pental
10/10
Present
1
0
0
0
Mr. Manish Jain1
1/1
NA
0
0
0
0
Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
10/10
Present
3
3
2(0)
0
Mr. Atul Malik
10/10
Present
0
1
0
0
Ms. Rekha Murthy
10/10
Present
0
1
0
0
Mr. Sharad Sharma
10/10
Present
1
1
1(0)
0
Mr. Sandeep Tewari
10/10
Present
0
0
0
0
Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar
10/10
Present
0
0
0
0
Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao
10/10
Present
0
3
0
0
Ms. Nandita Gurjar
9/10
Present
0
0
0
Galaxy Surfactants Limited - 
Independent Director
Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani
9/10
Present
0
1
0
LIC Housing Finance Limited - 
Independent Director
Ms. Shweta Jalan
8/10
Present
3
3
0
Suven Pharmaceuticals Limited - Non-
Executive-Non Independent Director
Mr. Sunil Kaul2
6/6
Present
-
-
-
-
	
#Includes directorship(s) held in Foreign Companies, Private Limited Companies and Companies under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013
	
*Includes membership(s) of Audit Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee of all Indian Public Limited Companies; figures in 
brackets indicate number of Committee Chairpersonship(s) as per Regulation 26 of the SEBI LODR.
	
1Appointed as Executive Director of the Bank w.e.f. December 11, 2024.
	
2Ceased to be the Director of the Bank w.e.f .October 11, 2024.
	
Notes:
	
1.	
None of the Independent Directors of the Bank serve as an Independent Director in more than seven listed companies or as a Whole-
Time Director in any listed company.
	
2.	
None of the Directors on the Board is a member of more than ten (10) Committees and Chairperson of more than five (5) Committees 
across all public companies in which he/she is a Director. All the Directors have made necessary disclosures regarding Committee 
positions occupied by them in other companies.
	
3.	
The quorum was present at all the meetings of the Board of Directors held during the FY 2024-25.
	
4.	
During the FY 2024-25, due to business exigencies, sixteen (16) resolutions were passed through circulation and the said resolutions 
were noted at the subsequent Board Meetings.
(c)	
Disclosure of relationships between Directors inter-se:
	
None of the present Directors are having any inter-se relationship and each one of them is independent of each other, except 
that Nominee Directors of State Bank of India represent the same organisation.
(d)	
Number of shares and convertible instruments held by Non-Executive Directors:
	
The details of shareholding of Non-Executive Directors as on March 31, 2025 is as under:
Sr. No.
Name of the Director
No. of Shares
1.
Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
150,000
2.
Mr. Atul Malik
0
3.
Ms. Rekha Murthy
0
4.
Mr. Sharad Sharma
0
5.
Mr. Sandeep Tewari
0
6.
Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar
0
7.
Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao
1,000
8.
Ms. Nandita Gurjar
52,500
9.
Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani
0
10.
Ms. Shweta Jalan
0
	
None of the Non-Executive Directors hold any convertible instrument of the Bank as on March 31, 2025.
247
247
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(e)	
Familiarisation Programmes for Independent Directors:
	
In compliance with the requirement of the SEBI LODR, 
the Bank conducts familiarization programmes covering 
matters as specified under Regulation 25(7) of the 
SEBI LODR, for all the Non-Executive Directors and 
Independent Directors of the Bank, as regards their roles, 
rights, responsibilities in the Bank, nature of the Banking 
Industry, Business Model, Financial Management, Risk 
Management System and Technology Architecture of the 
Bank for the purpose of contributing significantly towards 
the growth of the Bank so as to help them contribute 
significantly during the deliberations in the Board/ 
Committee meetings. During the year under review, the 
Bank conducted refresher course on Bank’s product for 
Board of Directors of the Bank. In addition, the Bank 
also facilitated the participation of Board of Directors on 
various training programs viz. Climate Change - Risk & 
Sustainability, IT & Cyber Security, Know Your Customer 
(KYC) and Anti Money Laundering (AML), Operational Risk 
Management, Social Media, etc.
	
The programmes undertaken for familiarising the 
Board of Directors of the Bank including Non-Executive 
Directors and Independent Directors are hosted on the 
website of the Bank and the web link thereto is https://
www.yesbank.in/about-us/corporate-governance.
(f)	
A chart or a matrix setting out the skills/expertise/
competence of the Board of Directors1:
	
The Board of Directors have identified the following core 
skills / expertise / competencies / special knowledge 
or practical experience, as required in the context of 
the Bank’s business and the sector(s) for it to function 
effectively. The same are in line with the relevant 
provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and 
relevant circulars issued by the Reserve Bank of India 
from time to time.
	
The Board shall have special knowledge or practical 
experience in (i) accountancy (ii) agriculture and rural 
economy (iii) banking (iv) co-operation (v) economics (vi) 
finance (vii) law (viii) small-scale industry (ix) Information 
Technology (x) Payment & Settlement Systems (xi) 
Human Resources (xii) Risk Management (xiii) Business 
Management (xiv) any other skill/ special knowledge/ 
practical experience as may be specified by RBI from 
time to time. The details in this regard with respect to 
each Director is given as under:
Name of the Director
Specialised Knowledge / Practical Experience / Skills / Expertise / Competencies
Mr. Prashant Kumar
Banking, Finance, Law, Human Resources, Agriculture & Rural Economy and Strategy
Dr. Rajan Pental
Agriculture and Rural Economy, Banking, Information Technology, Human Resources, Risk Management 
and Business Management, Marketing, Technology & Systems, Operations, Investor Relations, Turnaround 
Specialist, Stakeholder Management, Compliance
Mr. Manish Jain
Banking, Risk Management and Business Management, Strategic Planning, Sales & Client Relationship 
Management, Credit Analysis, Team Management
Mr. Rama 
Subramaniam Gandhi
Accountancy, Agriculture and Rural Economy, Banking, Economics, Finance, Information Technology, Payment & 
Settlement System, Risk Management, and Financial Markets
Mr. Atul Malik
Banking, Finance, Risk Management, Information Technology and Business Management
Ms. Rekha Murthy
Information Technology, Human Resources, Business Management, Small-Scale Industry and Marketing
Mr. Sharad Sharma
Banking, Finance, Risk Management, Small-Scale Industry, Treasury Operations (Forex Operations), Global 
Markets, Credit Recovery
Mr. Sandeep Tewari
Agriculture & Rural Economy, Banking, Finance, Information Technology, Human Resources, Risk Management, 
Business Management, Strategic Planning, Treasury Operations (Forex Banking), Credit Recovery, Audit, 
Balance sheet analysis and Cash Management, Profit Centre Management, Business Development, Customer 
Relationship, Cost Optimisation, Reporting & Presentations and Supervising & Counselling
Mr. Thekepat Keshav 
Kumar
Risk Management, Human Resources, Agriculture and Rural Economy, Small Scale Industry, Banking, Credit, 
Treasury Operations, Planning and Development and Stressed Asset Management
Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas 
Rao
Finance, Business Management, Risk Management, Project Finance, Investment Banking and Consulting / 
Advisory
Ms. Nandita Gurjar
Information Technology & Human Resources, and Consulting / Advisory
Mr. Sanjay Kumar 
Khemani
Accountancy, Finance, Agriculture and Rural Economy, Risk Management, Law, Banking, Small-Scale Industry, 
Information Technology, Payment & Settlement Systems, Human Resources, Business management, Marketing, 
Strategic planning, Treasury Operations, Credit Recovery and Audit
Mr. Shivakumar Dega
Finance, Information Technology, Payment & Settlement Systems, Human Resources, Risk Management, 
Business Management, Marketing, Technology and systems and Strategic planning
1GRI 2-9
248
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
(g)	
Confirmation about Independence:
	
The Bank has received declarations from the Independent 
Directors that they meet the criteria of Independence 
laid down under Section 149 of the Companies Act, 
2013 (“the Act”) read with Rule 5 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 
2014, and Regulations 16(1)(b) and 25 of the SEBI LODR. 
The Independent Directors have also confirmed that 
they have registered themselves with the Independent 
Directors’ database maintained by the Indian Institute of 
Corporate Affairs. Further, during the year there has been 
no change in the circumstances affecting their status as 
Independent Directors of the Bank.
	
The Board of Directors, based on the declaration(s) 
received from the Independent Directors, have duly 
assessed the veracity of such disclosures and confirm 
that the Independent Directors fulfil the conditions of 
independence specified in the SEBI LODR and the Act and 
are independent of the management of the Bank.
(h)	
Terms and Conditions for Appointment of Independent 
Directors:
	
A formal letter of appointment is addressed to the 
Independent Director(s) at the time of their appointment/ 
re-appointment. General terms and conditions of 
appointment/ re-appointment, issued to the Independent 
Directors is available on https://www.yesbank.in/
pdf?name=independentdirectors_pdf2.pdf
(i)	
Policy on Appointment of Directors:
	
The Bank has a Board approved ‘Policy on Board 
Diversity and Fit & Proper Criteria and Succession 
Planning’ (‘Fit & Proper Policy’) which comprises of 
diversity of Board’s composition, succession planning 
and the detailed process for appointment of Directors 
including the required skill sets, experience, qualification, 
etc. as required under the Act, SEBI LODR, the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 and other regulatory and business 
requirements. 
The 
Nomination 
& 
Remuneration 
Committee is being guided by the said policy, while 
recommending appointment of Directors. As per the Fit 
& Proper Policy of the Bank, Bank ensures that not less 
than 51% of the total number of members of the Board 
of Directors shall have special knowledge or practical 
experience in (i) accountancy, (ii) agriculture and rural 
economy, (iii) banking, (iv) co-operation, (v) economics, 
(vi) finance, (vii) law, (viii) small-scale industry, (ix) 
Information Technology (x) Payment & Settlement 
Systems (xi) Human Resources (xii) Risk Management 
(xiii) Business Management (xiv) any other skill/ special 
knowledge/ practical experience as may be specified by 
RBI from time to time.
(j)	
Criteria for Appointment of Independent Directors:
	
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee while 
considering the proposal for appointment of Independent 
Directors considers the criteria of independence as 
prescribed under the Act and SEBI LODR.
(k) 	 Meeting of the Independent Directors:
	
In terms of provisions of Schedule IV of the Act and 
SEBI LODR, during the year ended FY 2024-25, Two (2) 
Meetings of the Independent Directors were held on 
May 17, 2024 and March 21, 2025. The performance of 
Non-Independent Directors including Managing Director 
& CEO and Executive Directors, the Board as a whole 
and the Chairman of the Bank for FY 2024-25 was 
discussed by the Independent Directors in their separate 
meeting held on April 19, 2025. In the said Meeting, 
the Independent Directors also assessed the quality, 
quantity, and timeliness of flow of information between 
the Management and the Board, in accordance with 
Para VII to Schedule IV of the Act. At the said Meeting, 
the Independent Directors completed the performance 
evaluation of Non-Independent Directors including 
Managing Director & CEO and Executive Directors, 
the Board as a whole and the Chairman of the Bank. 
The Meetings of the Independent Directors were held 
without the presence of Non-Independent Directors and 
members of Management.
(l)	
Information Supplied / Available to the Board:
	
The Directors are presented with important/critical 
information on the operations of the Bank as well as 
information which requires deliberations at the highest 
level. The Board has complete access to all the relevant 
information within the Bank and also has access to the top 
management of the Bank and any additional information 
to make informed and timely decisions. All board and 
committee meetings are governed by structured agenda 
notes which are backed by comprehensive background 
papers along with relevant annexures. As a part of 
green initiative by the Bank, all relevant agenda papers 
pertaining to the Board/ Committee meetings are being 
circulated well in advance to the Board of Directors 
through web-based portal to facilitate easy access of 
agenda on iPad which would provide sufficient time to 
the Board for reading and understanding the proposals 
placed at the meeting.
249
249
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
The Board was presented with the information on 
various important matters of conversion of warrants 
pursuant to investment agreement(s), operations, risk 
management and business, new initiatives in business, 
budgets, financial results, update on corporate social 
responsibility activities, Environmental, Social and 
Governance, minutes of Board and Committees of 
the Board, appointment and remuneration of the 
Senior Management, appointment/cessation of Key 
Managerial Personnel, information on subsidiaries, 
further investments in subsidiary, foreign exposure and 
non-compliance, if any, with regulatory or statutory 
guidelines of SEBI and RBI Regulations/ circulars, etc. 
and other matters which are required to be placed 
before the Board in terms of the Act, SEBI LODR and 
Theme Based Review agenda as prescribed by RBI, 
etc. The Board and other Committees also approve 
various business proposals and regulatory approvals 
through circulation.
(m)	 Post Meeting Communication / Follow up System:
	
The Bank has an effective post meeting follow up 
procedure. It has a mechanism to track important 
decisions taken at the Board/Committee meetings 
till the closure of such decisions. The Bank has put 
in place a system viz. Action Point Tracker System 
to track actionable emanating from Board/Board 
Level Committee meetings. Action Taken Report on 
the decisions taken/directions in a meeting is placed 
at the succeeding meeting(s) of the Board/Board 
Level Committees.
(n)	
Succession Planning:
	
The Bank has deployed a structured and robust 
framework for identifying, building, and developing 
talent pipeline of successors in key organisational 
roles. The successors are identified using assessment 
centre methodology comprising of scientifically valid 
tools like psychometric assessment, behavioural event 
interview, case study analysis and 360-degree feedback. 
Developmental inputs are provided to build leadership 
capabilities and strengthen internal talent pipeline. 
The succession list is reviewed periodically to keep it 
current and contextual for any exclusions/inclusions as 
deemed necessary.
(o)	
Directors and Officers Insurance (‘D&O’):
	
In line with the requirements of Regulation 25(10) of the 
SEBI LODR, the Bank has taken D & O Insurance for all 
its Directors and Officers for such quantum and for such 
risks as determined appropriate by the Board of Directors.
3.	
COMMITTEES1:
	
In order to focus on strategic and key financial issues, the 
Bank is required to have certain Board Level Committees. 
The Act, SEBI LODR and Banking Regulation Act, 1949 
also mandates for constitution of certain Board Level 
Committees. The Bank has constituted Eleven (11) Board 
Level Committees in compliance with the aforesaid 
regulatory requirements and as per the requirement 
of the business with specified Terms of Reference of 
each of the Committees. During the year, the Board has 
approved segregation of Fraud, Willful Defaulters and 
Non-Cooperative Borrowers Monitoring Committee 
in two (2) committee namely (i) Special Committee of 
the Board for Monitoring and Follow-up of Frauds and 
(ii) Review Committee for Classification and Declaration 
of Wilful Defaulters w.e.f. September 10, 2024, in order 
to follow the nomenclature as provided by RBI through its 
Master Direction dated July 15, 2024 and July 30, 2024. 
These Board Level Committees focus on and monitor 
the specific areas according to the scope defined in the 
Terms of Reference of the respective Committee and take 
informed decisions on the specific businesses assigned 
to them in the best interest of the Bank. The Committees 
also make specific recommendations to the Board on 
various matters whenever required. All observations, 
recommendations and decisions of the Committees are 
placed before the Board for information or for approval.
	
These Board Level Committees play a key role in the 
governance and focus on specific areas and make 
informed decisions within the delegated authority. 
Each Committee is guided by its Terms of Reference, 
which provides for the scope, powers and duties 
and responsibilities. The recommendation and/or 
observations and decisions are placed before the Board 
for information or approval. The Chairperson of respective 
Committee updates the Board regarding the discussions 
held and decisions taken at the Committee Meeting.
	
During the year under review, Company Secretary, 
acted as the Secretary to the Board level Committees. 
The eleven (11) Board Level Committees are briefly 
described below:
a)	
Audit Committee:
3.a.1	Composition, meetings and attendance during the FY 
2024-25
	
The Audit Committee of the Bank presently comprises 
of five (5) members, viz., Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani 
(Chairperson), Mr. Atul Malik, Ms. Rekha Murthy, 
Mr. Sharad Sharma and Mr. Sandeep Tewari. There was 
1GRI 2-9
250
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
no change in the composition of Audit Committee during 
the FY 2024-25.
	
During the FY 2024-25, Nineteen (19) Meetings 
of Audit Committee were held on April 17, 2024, 
April 26, 2024, May 14, 2024, June 10, 2024, June 11, 
2024, July 16, 2024, July 19, 2024, August 20, 2024, 
September 04, 2024, September 10, 2024, October 18, 
2024, October 25, 2024, November 29, 2024, December 06, 
2024, December 18, 2024, January 17, 2025, January 24, 
2025, February 21, 2025 and March 20, 2025 with an 
interval of less than one hundred and twenty (120) days 
between two consecutive meetings.
	
The composition of the Committee along with the participation of the Members at the meetings of the Committee held 
during the year is as under:
Name of Member
Position
Category
Date of Appointment 
to the Committee
Meetings Attended/ 
Eligible to attend
Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani
Chairperson
Independent Director
July 15, 2022
19/19
Mr. Atul Malik
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2022
19/19
Ms. Rekha Murthy
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2022
18/19
Mr. Sharad Sharma
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2022
19/19
Mr. Sandeep Tewari
Member
Non-Executive - Nominee Director 
of State Bank of India
July 29, 2022
19/19
	
Notes:
	
1)	
As per RBI Notification No. RBI/2021-22/24 DOR.GOV.REC.8/29.67.001/2021-22 dated April 26, 2021 on Corporate Governance in 
Banks - Appointment of Directors and Constitution of Committees of the Board, Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi, Chairman of the 
Board is not a member of Audit Committee and Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani, Chairperson of the Audit Committee is not a member of 
Board Credit Committee of the Bank.
	
2)	
Dr. Rajan Pental, Executive Director, is an invitee to the meetings of Audit Committee of the Board w.e.f December 15, 2024.
	
3)	
The Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Compliance Officer are the invitees to the meetings of the Audit Committee.
	
4)	
All members of the Audit Committee have ability to read and understand financial statements and Chairperson of the Committee 
possesses requisite accounting and financial management expertise.
	
5)	
The Chief Internal Auditor attends the Audit Committee Meetings and briefs the Committee on all the points covered in the Internal 
Audit Report as well as on the other related issues that come up during the discussions.
	
6)	
During the FY 2024-25, the representatives of the Statutory Auditors have attended all the Audit Committee meetings, where 
Financial Results were approved.
	
7)	
At the last AGM, Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani, the Chairperson of the Audit Committee, was present.
	
8)	
The quorum was present at all the meetings of the Audit Committee held during the FY 2024-25.
	
9)	
In order to get the inputs and opinions of the Statutory Auditors, the Committee also held four (4) one-to-one meetings on April 17, 
2024, July 16, 2024, October 18, 2024 and January 17, 2025 with the Statutory Auditors without the presence of the management 
representatives.
	
10)	
Pursuant to SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/CRADT/CIR/P/2019/21 dated November 4, 2019, during the year, the Committee had 
a meeting with the Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs).
	
11)	
During the FY 2024-25, due to business exigencies, two (2) resolutions were passed through circulation and the said resolutions were 
noted at the subsequent meetings of the Audit Committee.
3.a.2	Terms of Reference:
	
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee covers all 
the areas mentioned under Section 177 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and Regulation 18 read with Part C of Schedule 
II of SEBI LODR, which include the following:
	
1)	
To provide directions and oversee the operation of 
the total audit function in the Bank (internal as well 
as external) and issue whenever necessary suitable 
directions and timely completion of audit;
	
2)	
To oversee the Banks’ financial reporting process 
and disclosure of its financial information to 
ensure that the financial statements are true, fair, 
sufficient and credible;
	
3)	
To create an open avenue for communication 
between the Board of Directors, Internal Auditors, 
Statutory Auditors and all other Auditors;
	
4)	
To recommend the appointment including terms 
of appointment and removal of statutory, internal, 
251
251
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
concurrent, tax and secretarial Auditors, fixation 
of audit fees and also to approve payment for 
other services;
	
5)	
To oversee the process of evaluation, selection 
and to recommend to the Board, the appointment, 
including fixation of fees, of the assurance provider 
for the Bank’s annual Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report (BRSR) Core disclosures and 
other sustainability/ non-financial reporting.
	
6)	
To appoint and determine the scope of the 
Concurrent auditors;
	
7)	
To review adequacy of internal audit function, its 
policies, its structure viz. staffing and seniority of 
the official heading the department, coverage and 
frequency of internal audits;
	
8)	
Review of internal audit reports relating to 
internal control weaknesses and review important 
concurrent audit findings;
	
9)	
To evaluate the adequacy and operational 
effectiveness of Internal Financial Control (IFC) of 
the Bank and Subsidiaries and also to evaluate Risk 
Management Systems of the Bank;
	
10)	 To discuss with statutory auditors, the nature 
and scope of audit as well as post-audit 
discussion to ascertain any area of concern w.r.t. 
financial statements and the IFC;
	
11)	 To engage with internal and external auditors and 
others on comments and observations on IFC;
	
12)	 To review the results / financial statements 
(quarterly, half yearly, annual) standalone as well 
as consolidated along with the Auditors’ report 
thereon and analyse performance of the Bank, 
along with the Management and recommend the 
same to the Board with primary focus on:
	
	
a)	
matters required to be included in the 
Director’s Responsibility Statement to be 
included in the Board’s report in terms of 
Section 134(3)(c) of the Companies Act, 2013 
and rules made thereunder;
	
	
b)	
accounting policies and practices and changes, 
if any, with reasons for the same;
	
	
c)	
compliance with accounting standards;
	
	
d)	
major 
accounting 
entries 
involving 
estimates 
based 
on 
the 
exercise 
of 
judgment by management;
	
	
e)	
significant adjustments made in the financial 
statements arising out of audit findings;
	
	
f)	
compliance with listing and other legal 
requirements relating to financial statements;
	
	
g)	
disclosure of any related party transactions;
	
	
h)	
modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report; and
	
	
i)	
Company’s earnings press releases, as well as 
financial information and earnings guidance, if 
any provided to analysts and rating agencies;
	
13)	 To review Annual Tax Audit statement and auditors’ 
report thereon;
	
14)	 To review Annual Long Form Audit Report 
as prepared by the Statutory Auditors along 
with Management response and updates on 
closure of the same;
	
15)	 To oversee the appointment of legal auditor and 
review the information in respect of legal audits of 
title deeds and other documents for credit exposure 
of ` 5 crore and above;
	
16)	 To review and approve the related party 
transactions pursuant to the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“SEBI Listing Regulations”) (including omnibus 
approval for related party transactions, material 
related party transactions and any subsequent 
material modification(s) thereto);
	
17)	 To review the financial statements, in particular, the 
investments made by the unlisted subsidiary;
	
18)	 To review, with the management, the statement of 
uses / application of funds raised through an issue 
(public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.) 
including statement of deviation, if any, and making 
appropriate recommendations to the Board to take 
up steps in this matter;
	
19)	 To approve and recommend to the Board the 
appointment of Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) 
after assessing the qualifications, experience & 
background, etc. of the candidate;
	
20)	 To review the Whistle Blower policy and Vigil 
Mechanism for Directors and Employees and 
functioning of the Whistle Blower Mechanism;
	
21)	 To deal with Whistle Blower complaints in 
time bound manner;
	
22)	 To 
review 
and 
monitor 
Vigilance 
function, 
its policies and implementation of Vigilance 
Framework of the Bank;
252
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
	
23)	 To review and recommend to the Board the 
appointment of Chief Compliance Officer (“CCO”)
	
24)	 To review and monitor compliance function, 
its policies and Implementation of Compliance 
Framework of the Bank;
	
25)	 Review of Banks’ Compliance in respect to Reports 
(Risk Assessment Report, Inspection Report, Major 
Area of Non Compliance and Risk Mitigation Plan) 
issued by RBI under Risk Based Supervision;
	
26)	 To review the implementation of RBI guidelines on 
KYC / AML and approve the changes in KYC Policy;
	
27)	 To review and approve the changes in Risk and 
Compliance Culture Policy and oversight on 
fostering the Compliance culture in the Bank;
	
28)	 To review Bank’s Compliance to various Inspection 
Reports issued by various regulators (RBI, SEBI, 
NSDL, CDSL etc.);
	
29)	 To review and approve the Conflict of Interest Policy 
with respect to Merchant Banking, Banker to Issue, 
Depository Participant, Custodian of Securities and 
Designated Depository Participants in line with the 
SEBI Circular dated August 27, 2013;
	
30)	 Review of compliance on directives issued by 
ACB / Board / RBI;
	
31)	 Review report on compliance of corporate 
governance requirements as per SEBI (Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and other guidelines issued by 
SEBI from time to time;
	
32)	 Review report on compliance of regulatory 
requirement of Regulators in Host Countries in 
respect of overseas branches;
	
33)	 To institute special investigation teams with 
complete access to all records, information and 
personnel of the Bank, if necessary;
	
34)	 To review incidence of fraud.
	
35)	 To Initiate examination of accountability in cases 
involving very senior executives of the bank (MD & 
CEO / Executive Director / Executives of equivalent 
rank) and place it before the Board.
	
36)	 Approval for closure of fraud cases.
	
37)	 To review the minutes of the quarterly, Apex 
Management Committee and Staff Accountability 
Committee meetings, Fraud Control and Suspicious 
Activity Monitoring Committee meetings.
	
38)	 To review the cases of Wilful Default periodically 
and to recommend steps to be taken by the Bank 
to prevent such occurrences and identify early 
detection of such instances.
	
39)	 To focus on the root causes of Wilful Default and 
addressing deficiencies, if any, in the Wilful Defaulter 
classification process adopted by the Bank.
	
40)	 To investigate any activity within its terms of 
reference or in relation to the items specified or 
referred to it by the Board / Board Committee, seek 
information from any employee, obtain outside 
legal or other professional advice from external 
sources and secure attendance of outsiders with 
relevant expertise, if it considers necessary and 
shall have full access to information contained in 
the records of the Bank;
	
41)	 To review utilisation of loans and/ or advances 
from/ investment by the holding company in the 
subsidiary exceeding ` 100 crore or 10% of the asset 
size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower including 
existing loans/ advances/ investments existing as 
on the date of coming into force of this provision;
	
42)	 To review and monitor the auditors’ independence 
and performance, effectiveness of audit process;
	
43)	 Reviewing, with the management, performance of 
statutory and internal auditors, adequacy of the 
internal control systems;
44)	 Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Bank, 
wherever necessary;
45)	 To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in 
the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, 
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared 
dividends) and creditors;
46)	 To review, at least once in a financial year, 
compliance of the provisions of SEBI (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 (“PIT”) and to 
verify that the systems for related internal control 
are adequate and are operating effectively;
47)	 To review on quarterly basis reports provided by 
compliance officer on violations and remedial/
punitive action for the same;
48)	 To review the system of storage and retrieval, 
display 
or 
printout 
of 
books 
of 
accounts 
maintained in electronic mode during the required 
period under law;
253
253
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
49)	 Review of housekeeping - particularly balancing 
and reconciliation of long outstanding entries 
Suspense / Sundries / Drafts payable / paid / Funds 
in Transit / Clearing / SGL / CSGL accounts;
50)	 Review of report on Revenue leakage detected by 
Internal / External Auditors and status of recovery 
thereof - reasons for undercharges and steps taken 
to prevent revenue leakage;
51)	 Review the findings of any internal investigations 
by the internal auditors into matters where there 
is suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of 
internal control systems of a material nature and 
reporting the matter to the Board;
52)	 To review and approve the Internal Audit Policy 
(IAP) and amendments thereto (IS Audit policy and 
scope of Credit Audit and Loan Review Mechanism 
embedded in the IAP) for undertaking risk-based 
internal audit and to review and approve risk based 
Internal Audit plan;
53)	 Review of Internal Audit plan and status of 
achievement thereof;
54)	 Review System Audit as per RBI Internal 
Control Guidelines;
55)	 To approve the concurrent audit policy;
56)	 KYC / AML Guidelines - Review of compliance of 
concurrent audit reports with respect to adherence 
to KYC / AML guidelines at branches;
57)	 Review of exposure to sensitive sectors i.e. 
capital market & real estate;
58)	 Review of information on violations by various 
functionaries in the exercise of discretionary powers;
59)	 Review of information in respect of equity share 
holdings in borrower companies more than 30% of 
their paid up capital;
60)	 Review report on fraudulent transactions relating to 
Internet Banking through phishing attacks pointing 
out in particular the deficiencies in the existing 
systems and steps taken by the IT department to 
prevent such cases;
61)	 Review of the Bank’s financial management policies;
62)	 Review penalties imposed / penal action taken 
against Bank under various laws and statutes and 
action taken for corrective measures;
63)	 Review the management discussion and analysis of 
financial condition and results of operations;
64)	 Review of Management letters / letters of 
internal control weaknesses issued by the 
statutory auditors;
65)	 Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;
66)	 To meet Credit Rating Agencies at least once in 
a year, to discuss issues including related party 
transactions, internal financial control and other 
material disclosures made by the management, 
which have a bearing on rating of the listed NCDs;
67)	 Consider and comment on rationale, cost-benefits 
and 
impact 
of 
schemes 
involving 
merger, 
demerger, amalgamation etc., on the Bank and 
its shareholders;
68)	 To discuss with internal auditors of any significant 
findings and follow up there on;
69)	 To review the appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the Chief Internal Auditor;
70)	 To 
review 
update 
on 
Legal 
cases 
filed 
against the Bank;
71)	 To review Comprehensive report on Credit 
Card Operations;
72)	 To review the compliance of the conditions in RBI 
circular on lending by banks to InvITs;
73)	 To review ageing analysis of entries pending 
reconciliation with outsourced vendors;
74)	 To perform any other functions, duty as stipulated 
by the Companies Act, Reserve Bank of India, 
Securities & Exchange Board of India, Stock 
Exchanges, and any other regulatory authority 
or under any applicable laws, as prescribed from 
time to time and also to review the findings by 
regulatory agencies.
b)	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee:
3.b.1	Composition, meetings and attendance during the FY 
2024-25:
	
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee of the 
Bank presently comprises of six (6) members viz., 
Ms. Nandita Gurjar (Chairperson), Mr. Atul Malik, 
Ms. Rekha  Murthy, Mr. Sandeep Tewari, Mr. Rama 
Subramaniam Gandhi and Mr. Shivakumar Dega. There 
was no change in the composition of Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee during the FY 2024-25.
	
During the FY 2024-25, Six (6) Meetings of Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee were held on May 13, 
2024, June 04, 2024, October 25, 2024, November 13, 
2024 (adjourned to and held on November 22, 2024), 
December 04, 2024 and February 22, 2025.
254
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
	
The composition of the Committee along with the participation of the Members at the meetings of the Committee held 
during the FY 2024-25 is as under:
Name of Member
Position
Category
Date of Appointment 
to the Committee
Meetings Attended/ 
Eligible to attend
Ms. Nandita Gurjar
Chairperson
Independent Director
July 15, 2022
6/6
Ms. Rekha Murthy
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2022
6/6
Mr. Atul Malik
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2022
6/6
Mr. Sandeep Tewari
Member
Non-Executive - Nominee Director 
of State Bank of India
July 15, 2022
6/6
Mr. Rama Subramaniam 
Gandhi
Member
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
6/6
Ms. Shweta Jalan
Member
Non-Executive Non  
Independent Director
December 13, 2022
5/6
	
Notes:
	
1.	
As per RBI Notification No. RBI/2021-22/24 DOR.GOV.REC.8/29.67.001/2021-22 dated April 26, 2021 on Corporate Governance 
in Banks - Appointment of Directors and Constitution of Committees of the Board, at least one (1) member of Risk Management 
Committee should be a member of Nomination & Remuneration Committee. Accordingly, two (2) members of Risk Management 
Committee of the Bank are members of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee.
	
2.	
Mr. Sunil Kaul, Non-Executive Non-Independent Director, Nominee of CA Basque Investments was an invitee to the meetings of Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee held till October 11, 2024, since he ceased to be the Director of the Bank w.e.f .October 11, 2024.
	
3.	
The Chairman of the Bank, Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi is a member of Nomination & Remuneration Committee and does not hold 
Chairmanship of the Committee.
	
4.	
The Chairperson of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee, Ms. Nandita Gurjar was present at the last AGM held on 
August 23, 2024.
	
5.	
The quorum was present at all the meetings of the Nomination and Remuneration committee held during the FY 2024-25.
	
6.	
During the FY 2024-25, due to business exigencies, twenty-four (24) resolutions were passed through circulation and the said 
resolutions were noted at the subsequent meetings of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
3.b.2	Terms of Reference:
	
The terms of reference of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee covers all the areas mentioned 
under Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
Regulation 19 read with Part D of Schedule II of SEBI 
LODR, which includes the following:
1)	
To review the current Board composition, its 
governance framework and determine future 
requirements and making recommendations to the 
Board for approval;
2)	
To examine the qualification, knowledge, skill sets 
and experience of each director vis-a-vis the Bank’s 
requirements and their effectiveness to the Board 
on a yearly basis and accordingly recommend to the 
Board for the induction of new Directors;
3)	
To scrutinize nominations for Directors with 
reference to their qualifications and experience 
and making recommendations to the Board for 
appointment/filling of vacancies;
4)	
To identify persons who are qualified to become 
directors and who may be appointed in senior 
management in accordance with the criteria 
laid down, recommend to the Board their 
appointment and removal;
5)	
To formulate performance evaluation framework 
of Individual Directors (including Chairperson, 
Managing Director & CEO, Executive Directors, 
Independent Directors, Non-Independent Directors), 
Board as a whole and Board level Committees;
6)	
To review the implementation of performance 
evaluation and its compliance;
7)	
To evaluate whether to extend or continue the 
term of appointment of the independent director 
on the basis of report of performance evaluation of 
independent directors;
8)	
To validate ‘fit and proper’ status of all Directors on 
the Board of the Bank in terms of the Guidelines 
issued by the RBI or other regulatory authorities;
9)	
To develop and recommend to the Board Corporate 
Governance Guidelines applicable to the Bank for 
incorporating best practices;
10)	 To implement policies and processes relating to 
Corporate Governance principles;
11)	 To 
formulate 
the 
criteria 
for 
determining 
qualifications, 
positive 
attributes 
and 
independence of a director;
255
255
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12)	 To evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience on the Board and on the basis 
of such evaluation, prepare a description of the 
role and capabilities required of an independent 
director. The person recommended to the Board 
for appointment as an independent director shall 
have the capabilities identified in such description. 
For the purpose of identifying suitable candidates, 
the Committee may:
	
a.	
use 
the 
services 
of 
an 
external 
agencies, if required;
	
b.	
consider candidates from a wide range 
of 
backgrounds, 
having 
due 
regard 
to diversity; and
	
c.	
consider 
the 
time 
commitments 
of 
the candidates.
13)	 To devise a Policy on Board diversity;
14)	 To recommend to the Board a policy relating to, 
the remuneration for the directors, key managerial 
personnel 
and 
other 
employees 
including 
performance/achievement 
bonus, 
perquisites, 
retirals, sitting fee, etc.;
15)	 To review the Bank’s overall compensation 
structure and related polices with a view to 
attract, motivate and retain employees and review 
compensation levels vis-à-vis other Banks and the 
industry in general;
16)	 To ensure the following while formulating the policy 
on the below matters:
	
a.	
the level and composition of remuneration is 
reasonable and sufficient to attract, retain and 
motivate directors, key managerial personnel 
and senior management* of the quality 
required to run the company successfully;
	
b.	
relationship of remuneration to performance 
is clear and meets appropriate performance 
benchmarks; and
	
c.	
remuneration to Whole time directors, 
key 
managerial 
personnel 
and 
senior 
management* involves a balance between 
fixed and incentive pay reflecting short and 
long- term performance objectives appropriate 
to the working of the company and its goals.
17)	 To recommend to the Board all remuneration, in 
whatever form, payable to senior management;
18)	 To formulate detailed terms and conditions of the 
Employee Stock Option Schemes and to adopt, 
administer, enforce, modify and supervise the same;
19)	 To function as the Compensation Committee as 
prescribed under the SEBI (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 and 
to consider grant of stock options to employees 
and allot shares pursuant to exercise of Stock 
Options by employees;
20)	 To review the Human Capital Capacity Planning 
on annual basis;
21)	 To review the Succession Planning;
22)	 To 
review 
the 
HCM 
Policies 
and 
provide 
suitable guidance for additions/ modification/ 
deletions, if any;
23)	 To approve the appointment of Chief Human 
Resources Officer;
24)	 To approve the appointment of Chief Financial 
Officer and Company Secretary;
25)	 To approve the hiring requisition for any new 
position as MD&CEO Direct Reports;
26)	 To perform any other functions or duties as 
stipulated by the Companies Act, Reserve Bank of 
India, Securities and Exchange Board of India, Stock 
Exchanges and any other regulatory authority or 
under any applicable laws as may be prescribed 
from time to time.
	
	
*Senior Management as defined in SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 and Companies Act, 2013.
3.b.3	Board Level Performance Evaluation Criteria including 
for Independent Directors:
	
The details of the performance evaluation criteria for 
Directors (including Independent Directors) of the Bank 
have been mentioned in the Directors’ Report.
3.b.4	Remuneration of Directors:
	
(a)	
Remuneration Policy1:
	
	
The Board of Directors of the Bank had formulated 
and adopted Remuneration Policy (earlier Board 
Remuneration Policy) relating to the remuneration 
for the Directors including Chairperson, Key 
Managerial Personnel and other Employee's, 
in terms of Section 178 of the Act, the relevant 
Rules made thereunder, Regulation 19 of the 
SEBI LODR and Guidelines / Circulars issued by 
RBI, in this regard, from time to time. Further, the 
Bank has a separate detailed Total Rewards Policy 
articulated in line with relevant RBI guidelines 
which inter-alia deals with the Compensation & 
Benefits of the Managing Director & CEO and the 
Whole-time Directors.
	
	
The Remuneration Policy of the Bank is available on 
the website of the Bank at https://www.yesbank.
in/about-us/corporate-governance
1GRI 2-19, GRI 2-20
256
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
	
(b)	
Directors’ Remuneration:
	
	
i) 	
Chairman:
	
	
	
The details of the remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Bank during FY 2024-25 is given below:
(Amount in `)
Name of the Part-time Chairman
Salary
Perquisites
Others@
Total
Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
3,000,000
-
2,350,000
5,350,000
	
	
	
@Sitting fees paid for attending the Board Meetings / respective Board Level Committee Meetings held during 
the FY 2024 – 25.
 	
	
ii)	
Executive Directors:
	
	
	
The details of the remuneration paid to the Executive Directors during FY 2024-25 is given below:
(Amount in `)
Name of the Director
Mr. Prashant Kumar
Managing Director & 
Chief Executive Officer
Dr. Rajan Pental 
Executive Director
Mr. Manish Jain
Executive Director
Salary - Fixed Pay
(a)	
Basic salary and allowances
 24,832,254
 29,338,832
 10,476,485
(b)	
Value of perquisites1
 4,477,136
 825,595
 164,781
(c)	
Company contribution towards PF
 872,160
 1,373,400
 378,793
Performance linked incentives:
Performance Bonus for FY 242
 7,575,000
 5,340,000
 -
Performance Bonus for FY 233
 2,330,505
 2,143,826
 -
Performance Bonus for FY 224
 2,200,000
 2,362,806
 -
Performance Bonus for FY 215
 1,966,666
 -
 -
Total
 44,253,721
 41,384,459
 11,020,059@
Stock Options6
 5,050,000
 3,204,000
 -
	
	
	
Notes:
	
	
	
For Mr. Prashant Kumar, Managing Director & CEO
	
	
	
1.	
Perquisites are evaluated as per the Income Tax Act, 1961 wherever applicable, or otherwise at actual cost to the Bank. 
This includes House & Maintenance, Bank’s car, Club membership etc.
	
	
	
2.	
Performance Bonus for FY 24 represents the 50% of bonus (cash based) paid out from the approved bonus of ` 1.52 crore 
for the performance period FY 24. Remaining payout will be deferred in three equal annual tranches.
	
	
	
3.	
Performance Bonus for FY 23 represents deferral tranche number 1 of 3 of approved performance bonus (cash based) of 
` 1.39 crore. 50% of the approved bonus was paid out and the remainder was deferred in three equal annual tranches.
	
	
	
4.	
Performance Bonus for FY 22 represents deferral tranche number 2 of 3 of approved performance bonus (cash based) of 
` 1.32 crore. 50% of the approved bonus was paid out and the remainder was deferred in three equal annual tranches.
	
	
	
5.	
Performance Bonus for FY 21 represents deferral tranche number 3 of 3 of approved performance bonus (cash based) of 
`1.18 crore. 50% of the approved bonus was paid out and the remainder was deferred in three equal annual tranches.
	
	
	
6.	
Stock options represent the number of options granted for FY 24. The options were allocated considering the SLI value at 
` 2.53 crore and the Black Scholes Price of ` 5.00 as on October 15, 2024.
	
	
	
For Dr. Rajan Pental, Executive Director
	
	
	
1.	
Perquisites are evaluated as per the Income Tax Act, 1961 wherever applicable, or otherwise at actual cost to the Bank. 
This includes Bank’s car, Club membership etc.
	
	
	
2.	
Performance Bonus for FY 24 represents the 50% of bonus (cash based) paid out from the approved bonus of ` 1.07 crore 
for the performance period FY 24. Remaining payout will be deferred in three equal annual tranches.
	
	
	
3.	
Performance Bonus for FY 23 represents deferral tranche number 1 of 3 of approved performance bonus (cash based) of 
` 1.29 crore. 50% of the approved bonus was paid out and the remainder was deferred in three equal annual tranches.
257
257
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
	
	
4.	
Performance Bonus for FY 22 represents deferral tranche number 2 of 3 of approved performance bonus (cash based) of 
` 1.42 crore. 50% of the approved bonus was paid out and the remainder was deferred in three equal annual tranches.
	
	
	
5.	
Dr. Rajan Pental was appointed as Executive Director w.e.f. February 02, 2023, hence mention of Performance Bonus for 
FY 21 not applicable for him.
	
	
	
6.	
Stock options represent the number of options granted for FY 24. The options were allocated considering the SLI value at 
` 1.60 crore and the Black Scholes Price of ` 5.00 as on October 15, 2024.
	
	
	
For Mr. Manish Jain, Executive Director
	
	
	
1.	
Perquisites are evaluated as per the Income Tax Act, 1961 wherever applicable, or otherwise at actual cost to the Bank. 
This includes Bank’s car, Club membership etc.
	
	
	
2-6. 	 Mr. Manish Jain was appointed as Executive Director w.e.f. December 11, 2024, hence mention of Performance Bonus or 
Stock Options granted for previous FYs is not applicable for him.
	
	
	
@ 	
Mr. Manish Jain was appointed as Executive Director w.e.f. December 11, 2024, hence the stated remuneration for him is 
only for the period December 11, 2024 to March 31, 2025.
	
	
	
Perquisites (evaluated as per Income Tax Rules, 1962 wherever applicable and at actual cost to the Bank 
otherwise) such as benefit of the Bank’s furnished and maintained accommodation, free use of Banks’ cars with 
Driver for official purposes & private purposes, Club Memberships, Furniture/White goods, Gas, Electricity & 
Water, Life Insurance/ Personal Accident Insurance and Residence Telephone and other benefits like Provident 
Fund, Gratuity, Leave Fare Concession and other fixed allowances are provided in accordance with the respective 
regulation and policies of the Bank.
	
	
	
No sitting fees was paid to Mr. Prashant Kumar, Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer (MD&CEO), 
Dr. Rajan Pental, Executive Director (ED) and Mr. Manish Jain, Executive Director (ED) for attending meetings of the 
Board and/ or its Committees. Further, Mr. Prashant Kumar, MD & CEO, Dr. Rajan Pental, ED and Mr. Manish Jain, 
ED of the Bank do not receive any remuneration/sitting fees or commission from the subsidiary of the Bank.
	
	
	
The criteria for evaluation of performance of MD&CEO and ED are based on the evaluation criteria duly 
approved by the Board.
	
	
	
As per the terms and conditions defined in the appointment letter, the notice period is 90 days. There is no clause 
or condition related to severance fees in the appointment letter.
	
	
iii)	
Non-Executive Directors:
	
	
	
All the Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairperson) receive remuneration by way of sitting fees for each 
meeting of the Board and its various Committees except Mr. Sunil Kaul and Ms. Shweta Jalan. Mr. Sunil Kaul 
and Ms. Shweta Jalan have waived their right to receive sitting fees for attending Board/Board Level Committee 
meetings and remuneration entitled under extant Acts/ Regulations/Bank’s Policy during their tenure as Director 
of the Bank. No stock options were granted to any of the Non-Executive Directors.
	
	
	
In terms of RBI Circular No. RBI/2022-24/121 DoR.HGG.GOV.REC.75/29.67.001/2023-24 dated February 9, 
2024, the Board at its Meeting held on May 17, 2024, approved payment of fixed remuneration of an amount not 
exceeding ` 3,000,000 per annum with effect from April 01, 2024, to each Non-Executive Director of the Bank 
(other than part-time Chairperson, Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director) depending 
upon the size of the bank, experience of the NED and other relevant factors, subject to the approval of Members. 
The said payment of fixed remuneration has also been approved by the shareholders at the 20th AGM held on 
August 23, 2024. Further, in terms of RBI Circular dated February 9, 2024, the Bank has also laid down the criteria 
for payment of fixed remuneration for Non-Executive Directors of the Bank (excluding Chairman of the Bank).
258
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
	
	
The details of the remuneration paid to the Non-Executive Directors (excluding Chairman) during FY 2024-25 
are given below: -
(Amount in `)
Name of the Director
Fixed Remuneration$
Sitting Fees
Total
Mr. Atul Malik
2,000,000
5,425,000
7,425,000
Ms. Rekha Murthy
2,000,000
3,350,000
5,350,000
Mr. Sharad Sharma
2,000,000
3,100,000
5,100,000
Ms. Nandita Gurjar
2,000,000
1,750,000
3,750,000
Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani
2,000,000
2,900,000
4,900,000
Mr. Sandeep Tewari
2,000,000
3,075,000
5,075,000
Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar
2,000,000
3,650,000
5,650,000
Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao
2,000,000
3,700,000
5,700,000
Mr. Sunil Kaul#
0
0
0
Ms. Shweta Jalan#
0
0
0
	
	
$The Fixed Remuneration for the FY 2023-24 was paid to the Directors during FY 2024-25.
	
	
#Opted not to receive any sitting fees or the remuneration from the Bank.
	
	
Notes:
	
	
1.	
During FY 2024-25, the Non-Executive Directors were paid sitting fees of ` 100,000/- for attending each meeting of the Board 
of Directors and ` 50,000/- / ` 75,000 /- as applicable for attending Board Level Committee meetings. Further, the Board 
at its Meeting held on May 14, 2025, approved the revision in sitting fees to ` 85,000/- for attending each meeting of Audit 
Committee of Board, Nomination & Remuneration Committee, Risk Management Committee, Board Credit Committee and IT 
Strategy Committee and ` 60,000/- for attending meetings of other Board Level Committees.
	
	
2.	
No sitting fees were paid to Mr. Sunil Kaul and Ms. Shweta Jalan as they have waived their right to receive sitting fees for 
attending Board/Board Level Committee meetings and remuneration entitled under extant Acts/ Regulations/Bank’s Policy 
during their tenure as Director of the Bank.
	
	
3.	
The Bank did not pay any amount to Directors by way of salary and perquisites except to the Managing Director & CEO, Executive 
Directors and Non-Executive Part-time Chairman.
	
	
4.	
The Bank does not grant any Stock Options to any Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors of the Bank.
	
	
5.	
The remuneration of the Chairman, Managing Director & CEO and Executive Directors of the Bank has been approved by the 
Reserve Bank of India.
	
	
6.	
There were no other pecuniary relationships or transactions of Non-Executive Directors vis-à-vis the Bank during FY 2024-25 
(except normal banking transactions in the ordinary course of business and on arm’s length basis).
	
c)	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee:
	
	
3.c.1 Composition, meetings and attendance during the FY 2024-25
	
	
The Stakeholders Relationship Committee of the Bank presently comprises of five (5) members, viz., Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas 
Rao (Chairperson), Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar, Ms. Nandita Gurjar, Dr. Rajan Pental and Mr. Manish Jain.
	
	
During the year under review, Mr. Sunil Kaul ceased to be member of the Committee with effect from October 11, 2024 
and Mr. Manish Jain was inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from December 15, 2024.
	
	
During the FY 2024-25, two (2) meetings of Stakeholders Relationship Committee were held i.e. on May 08, 2024 and 
December 12, 2024.
259
259
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
The composition of the Committee along with the participation of the Members at the meetings of the Committee held 
during the year is as under:
Name of Member
Position
Category
Date of Appointment 
to the Committee
Meetings Attended/ 
Eligible to attend
Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao
Chairperson
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
2/2
Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar
Member
Non-Executive Nominee Director of
State Bank of India
July 29, 2022
2/2
Ms. Nandita Gurjar
Member
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
2/2
Mr. Sunil Kaul*
Member
Non-Executive Non Independent Director
December 13, 2022
1/1
Dr. Rajan Pental
Member
Executive Director
February 15, 2023
1/2
Mr. Manish Jain#
Member
Executive Director
December 15, 2024
-
	
*Ceased to be Member of the Committee effective from October 11, 2024 due to his resignation as Director of the Bank.
	
#Inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from December 15, 2024.
	
Notes:
	
1.	
The Chairperson of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao is a Non - Executive Director and attended 
the last AGM of the Bank.
	
2.	
The quorum was present at all the Meetings of Stakeholders Relationship Committee held during the FY 2024-25.
	
3.	
During the FY 2024-25, due to business exigencies, two (2) resolutions were passed through circulation and the said resolutions were 
noted at the subsequent meetings of Stakeholders Relationship Committee.
3.c.2	Terms of Reference:
	
The terms of reference of the Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee includes the following:
1.	
To review mechanisms adopted by the Bank to 
redress the complaints received from various 
security holders such as shareholders, debenture 
holders and any other stakeholders such as 
non-receipt of dividend, non - receipt of interest on 
debentures, annual report, transfer/transmission 
of shares or debentures, issue of new/duplicate 
share / debenture certificates, general meeting 
etc. including those received through SEBI 
SCORES, 
Online 
Dispute 
Resolution 
(ODR) 
platform, NSE and BSE;
2.	
To process any requests of duplicate share 
certificates in lieu of those share certificates 
which are reported as lost/misplaced/destroyed/
torn/mutilated;
3.	
To issue the “Letter of Confirmation”  to the 
shareholders against the service requests received 
from them in terms of SEBI circular;
4.	
To review the various measures and initiatives 
taken by the Bank for reducing the quantum of 
unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of 
dividend warrants/annual reports/statutory notices 
like Annual General Meeting /Extra-Ordinary 
General Meeting/ Postal Ballot Notice etc. by the 
shareholders of the Bank;
5.	
To oversee and review all matters connected 
with 
transfer, 
transmission, 
name 
deletion, 
transposition, dematerialization, rematerialization, 
splitting/subdivision, consolidation of securities 
issued by the Bank and transfer of unclaimed 
dividend/shares 
to 
Investor 
Education 
and 
Protection Fund (IEPF);
6.	
To review the movements in shareholding and 
ownership structure of the Bank;
7.	
To oversee and review the performance and 
service standards adopted by the Bank in respect 
of various services being rendered by the Registrar 
and Share Transfer Agent and to recommend 
measures for overall improvement in the quality of 
Investor services;
8.	
To 
review 
the 
key 
highlights/developments 
pertaining to various Stakeholders including equity 
shareholders, 
debenture 
holders, 
multilateral 
lenders, rating agencies etc.;
9.	
To 
review 
the 
engagements 
with 
various 
Stakeholders 
(mentioned 
above) 
including 
communication and feedback received from 
them. Further, recommend steps for improving 
engagement with the Stakeholders;
10.	 To review the measures taken for effective exercise 
of voting rights by shareholders;
11.	 To review Bank’s perception amongst Stakeholders, 
which are not covered under the scope of Terms of 
Reference of any other Committee, including but 
260
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
not limited to Shareholders, Debenture holders/
Bondholders, Other Security holders, Strategic 
Investors, Analysts and Brokers, Rating Agencies, 
International Lenders, Proxy Advisory Firms, 
Depositories etc, and Regulators like Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs, Reserve Bank of India, Securities 
and Exchange Board of India, Stock Exchanges, etc.;
12.	 To perform any other functions as stipulated by 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Reserve Bank of 
India, Securities and Exchange Board of India, Stock 
Exchanges, and any other regulatory authority 
through any applicable Acts / Laws/ Rules/ 
Regulations/ Notifications / Circulars etc., as 
amended from time to time;
13.	 To review the Communication Policy of the Bank 
annually or as and when required;
14.	 To 
review 
the 
Policy 
specifying 
process 
to be followed by claimant(s) for claiming 
unclaimed amounts.
3.c.3	Status of Shareholder’s Complaints/ Requests:
	
Shareholders’ Complaints during FY 2024-251:
Particulars
No. of 
Complaints
Shareholders complaints pending as at April 
01, 2024
0
Shareholders complaints received during the 
year ended on March 31, 2025
27
Shareholders complaints resolved during the 
year ended March 31, 2025
27
Shareholders complaints pending as at March 
31, 2025
0
	
Shareholders’ Requests during FY 2024-25:
Particulars
No. of 
Requests
Shareholders requests pending as at April 01, 
2024
13
Shareholders requests received during the 
year ended on March 31, 2025
2,496
Shareholders requests resolved during the 
year ended March 31, 2025
2,495
Shareholders requests pending as at March 
31, 2025
14*
	
*Shareholders requests pending as at March 31, 2025 were 
closed by April 2025 within TAT.
The Bank receives investor complaints through various 
sources and informs the Stakeholders Relationship Committee 
of the Bank on the resolution and redressal of the complaints, 
and also to the Board on quarterly basis. The Bank receives 
investor complaints from Stock Exchanges viz. BSE & NSE, 
SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES), Online Dispute 
Resolution (ODR) platform, Registrar of Companies, Mumbai, 
through the Bank’s Registrar and Transfer Agents, directly from 
investors’ correspondence and from the investors personal 
visits to the Bank. None of the complaints remained unsolved 
to the satisfaction of the shareholders as at March 31, 2025.
The Bank has designated Email ID namely shareholders@
yesbank.in for equity investors and bondholders@yesbank.in 
for bond holders for reporting complaints/grievances. The said 
Email IDs are also displayed on the website of the Bank.
3.c.4	Details of Compliance Officer:
	
Mr. Shivanand R. Shettigar, Company Secretary, acted as the Compliance Officer of the Bank (till March 31, 2025) 
as per SEBI LODR.
	
Mr. Sanjay Abhyankar, Company Secretary, acts as the Compliance Officer of the Bank (w.e.f. April 1, 2025) as per SEBI LODR.
d)	
Customer Service Committee
3.d.1	Composition, meetings and attendance during the year:
	
The Customer Service Committee of the Bank presently comprises of five (5) members, viz.,  Ms. Nandita Gurjar (Chairperson), 
Mr. Sharad Sharma, Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar, Dr. Rajan Pental and Mr. Manish Jain.
	
During the year under review, Mr. Sunil Kaul, ceased to be member of the Committee with effect from October 11, 2024 and 
Mr. Manish Jain was inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from December 15, 2024.
	
During the FY 2024-25, Two (2) meetings of Customer Service Committee were held on June 10, 2024 and 
December 06, 2024.
1GRI 2-16
261
261
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
The composition of the Committee along with the participation of the Members at the meetings of the Committee held 
during the year is as under:
Name of Member
Position
Category
Date of Appointment 
to the Committee
Meetings Attended/ 
Eligible to attend
Ms. Nandita Gurjar
Chairperson
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
2/2
Mr. Sharad Sharma
Member
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
2/2
Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar
Member
Non-Executive Nominee Director of  
State Bank of India
July 29, 2022
2/2
Mr. Sunil Kaul*
Member
Non-Executive Non Independent Director
December 13, 2022
0/1
Mr. Manish Jain#
Member
Executive Director
December 15, 2024
0/0
Dr. Rajan Pental
Member
Executive Director
February 15, 2023
2/2
	
*Ceased to be Member of the Committee effective from October 11, 2024 due to his resignation as Director of the Bank.
	
#Inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from December 15, 2024.
	
Notes:
	
1.	
The Chairperson of the Customer Service Committee, Ms. Nandita Gurjar is an Independent Director.
	
2.	
The quorum was present at all the Meetings of Customer Service Committee held during the FY 2024-25.
	
3.	
During the FY 2024-25, due to business exigencies, three (3) resolutions were passed through circulation and the said resolutions 
were noted at the subsequent meetings of Customer Service Committee.
3.d.2	Terms of Reference:
	
The terms of reference of the Customer Service 
Committee includes the following:
1.	
Review product approval process with a view to 
suitability and appropriateness;
2.	
Review of customer feedback gathered through 
annual customer satisfaction survey of depositors 
and 
other 
customers 
and 
suggest 
action 
for improvement;
3.	
Review of measures taken for enhancing the quality 
of customer service;
4.	
Review the findings of tri-enniel audit on 
customer service;
5.	
Review of branding, marketing and customer 
engagement activities of the bank;
6.	
Review of activities undertaken to promote 
digital payments;
7.	
To oversee the functioning of Standing Committee 
of Customer Service;
8.	
Review the update on the activities undertaken for 
promotion of digital products;
9.	
Review the update on Customer Liability Cases 
- 
(Customer 
Protection 
- 
Limiting 
Liability 
of 
Customers 
in 
Unauthorised 
Electronic 
Banking Transactions);
10.	 Review the update on Internal Ombudsman 
activities & analysis of cases referred;
11.	 Review the broad trends and concentration in 
the growth of customer grievances and their 
resolution 
including 
mis-selling, 
particularly 
third-party products;
12.	 Review the appropriateness of products to different 
customer segments;
13.	 Review the Reconciliation of transactions at ATMs 
failure - time limit;
14.	 Review of customer complaints addressed to the 
members of the Board (excluding MD & CEO and 
Executive Director);
15.	 Review the status of settlement of claims in regard 
to deceased claimants (locker-hirers / depositors of 
safe custody article accounts etc);
16.	 Examine any other issues having a bearing on the 
quality of customer services rendered;
17.	 (i) 	
Review the ATM uptime performance; and
	
(ii)	
Update on Debit Cards;
18.	 Review of Schedule of Charges for Retail & 
Commercial Assets, Rural Banking Assets and SME 
Banking products.
19.	 To perform any other functions, duty as stipulated 
by the Companies Act, Reserve Bank of India, 
Securities & Exchange Board of India, Stock 
Exchanges, and any other regulatory authority 
or under any applicable laws, as prescribed 
from time to time.
262
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
e)	
Risk Management Committee:
3.e.1	Composition, meetings and attendance during the year:
	
The Risk Management Committee of the Bank presently comprises of Five (5) members, viz., Mr. Sharad Sharma 
(Chairperson), Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi, Mr. Atul Malik, Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar and Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao.
	
During the year under review, Mr. Sunil Kaul, ceased to be member of the Committee with effect from October 11, 2024.
	
During the FY 2024-25, Six (6) meetings of Risk Management Committee were held on April 26, 2024, June 25, 2024, 
July 18, 2024, October 23, 2024, December 17, 2024 and January 23, 2025.
	
The composition of the Committee along with the participation of the Members at the meetings of the Committee held 
during the year is as under:
Name of Member
Position
Category
Date of Appointment 
to the Committee
Meetings Attended/ 
Eligible to attend
Mr. Sharad Sharma
Chairperson
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
5/6
Mr. Atul Malik
Member
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
6/6
Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2022
6/6
Mr. Sunil Kaul*
Member
Non-Executive Non Independent Director
December 13, 2022
3/3
Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar
Member
Non-Executive Nominee Director of State 
Bank of India
July 15, 2022
6/6
Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
Member
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
6/6
	
*Ceased to be Member of the Committee effective from October 11, 2024 due to his resignation as Director of the Bank.
	
Notes:
	
1.	
As per RBI Notification No. RBI/2021-22/24 DOR.GOV.REC.8/29.67.001/2021-22 dated April 26, 2021 on Corporate Governance in 
Banks - Appointment of Directors and Constitution of Committees of the Board, the Chairperson of the Risk Management Committee 
does not hold chairpersonship in Board or any other Committee of the Bank.
	
2.	
Mr. Shivakumar Dega, Additional Director (Non-Executive -Non Independent Director, Nominee of Verventa Holdings Limited) 
inducted as an invitee effective upon his appointment approved by the Board at its Meeting held on June 27, 2025, after noting 
resignation of Ms. Shweta Jalan. Mr. Prashant Kumar, Managing Director and CEO of the Bank is an invitee to the meetings of the Risk 
Management Committee.
	
3.	
The quorum was present at all the Meetings of Risk Management Committee held during the FY 2024-25.
	
4.	
The Risk Management Committee met the Chief Risk Officer on one-to-one basis, without the presence of MD & CEO and any other 
member of management team, on quarterly basis on April 26, 2024, July 18, 2024, October 23, 2024 and January 23, 2025.
	
5.	
During the FY 2024-25, no resolution was passed through circulation by Risk Management Committee.
3.e.2	Terms of Reference:
	
The terms of reference of the Risk Management 
Committee includes the following:
1)	
Oversee the Bank’s Enterprise Risk Management 
framework, 
covering 
risk 
identification, 
measurement, monitoring and mitigation;
2)	
Review, approve and recommend for the Board 
risk management policies, systems, processes 
& risk management framework at least once in 
two years, by considering the changing industry 
dynamics and evolving complexity. Review and 
assess the effectiveness of the policies, processes 
and framework including business continuity 
plan 
address 
deficiencies 
and 
recommend 
improvements to ensure internal control of the 
identified risks;
3)	
Assess that the Risk universe (internal as well 
as external) for the Bank has been adequately 
identified. Monitor risk profile of the Bank 
[including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, 
IRRBB, operational risk, model risk, reputation risk, 
information / cyber security related risk, attrition 
risk, financial risk, sustainability (particularly ESG 
related risks) etc.] within the Board approved 
overall Risk Appetite of the Bank as outlined in the 
ICAAP document;
4)	
Review, assess and approve setting up of Bank’s 
Risk Appetite and limits. Monitor compliance of 
263
263
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
risk limits and recommend appropriate actions in 
cases of breaches;
5)	
Review, assess and approve setting up of stress 
testing scenarios as well as review breaches 
therein; suggest remedial actions if any;
6)	
Integrate risk management into the Bank’s goals 
and compensation structure;
7)	
Review and approve the changes in Risk and 
Compliance Culture Policy and oversight on 
fostering the Risk culture in the Bank.
8)	
Evaluate the adequacy of the risk management 
function, the qualifications and background of 
senior risk officials and review the adequacy of 
the staffing of the Risk Management function to 
perform its role appropriately;
9)	
Monitoring compliance as well as critically analyzing 
various risk parameters and providing direction for 
corrective action wherever necessary;
10)	 Review of the Bank’s portfolio and providing 
necessary guidance to Management;
11)	 To review the minutes of Executive level 
Committees such as Asset Liability Committee 
(ALCO), Operational Risk Management Committee 
(ORMC), Security Council Meeting, Enterprise 
Risk Management Committee (ERMC) and Model 
Assessment Committee (MAC) and any other risk 
related committees as applicable;
12)	 To review the Products and the Processes (new and 
existing) which has been approved by the Product 
and Process Approval Committee (PPAC).
13)	 Review and provide necessary guidance on 
key observations of RBI / any other regulatory 
inspection report.
14)	 To review the status of “Red Flagged Accounts” 
including the EWS alerts, remedial action initiated, 
on a quarterly basis.
15)	 To review the cases remaining in Red Flag 
status beyond 180 days and take disciplinary 
action if required.
16)	 To perform any other function or duty as stipulated 
by the Companies Act, Reserve Bank of India, Securities 
and Exchange Board of India, Stock Exchanges and 
any other regulatory authority or Board of Directors 
of the Bank or under any applicable laws as may be 
prescribed from time to time.
17)	 To review the appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer;
18)	 To seek information from any employee, obtain 
outside legal or other professional advice and 
secure attendance of outsiders with relevant 
expertise, if necessary.
19)	 To keep the board of directors informed about 
the nature and content of its discussions, 
recommendations and actions to be taken;
20)	 To conduct Meeting of Chief Risk Officer with 
the Committee in accordance with RBI Circular 
No.DBR.BP.BC.No.65/21.04.103/2016-17 
dated 
April 27, 2017;
21)	 To review at least on an annual basis, the 
risk 
presentation 
made 
by 
the 
Subsidiary 
company of the Bank;
22)	 To review on half-yearly basis, the Financial 
Stability Report published by RBI and the Bank’s 
position vis-à-vis the Report.
23)	 To review any unforeseen material developments 
that have implications on  the Risks  being 
faced by the Bank; assess its implications; and 
guide on the steps to be taken by  the Bank  for 
mitigation of such Risks.
f)	
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental, 
Social & Governance (CSR & ESG) Committee :
3.f.1	Composition, meetings and attendance during the year:
	
The 
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
and 
Environmental, Social & Governance Committee of 
the Bank presently comprises of six (6) members, viz., 
Ms. Rekha Murthy (Chairperson), Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas 
Rao, Ms. Nandita Gurjar, Mr. Shivakumar Dega, Dr. Rajan 
Pental and Mr. Manish Jain.
	
During the year under review, Mr. Manish Jain was 
inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from 
December 15, 2024.
	
During the FY 2024-25, Two (2) meetings of the 
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental, 
Social & Governance Committee were held on June 12, 
2024 and February 07, 2025.
	
The composition of the Committee along with the 
participation of the Members at the meetings of the 
Committee held during the year is as under:
264
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Name of Member
Position
Category
Date of Appointment
to the Committee
Meetings Attended/ 
Eligible to attend
Ms. Rekha Murthy
Chairperson
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
2/2
Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao
Member
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
2/2
Ms. Nandita Gurjar
Member
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
2/2
Ms. Shweta Jalan
Member
Non-Executive Non Independent Director
December 13, 2022
2/2
Dr. Rajan Pental
Member
Executive Director
February 15, 2023
2/2
Mr. Manish Jain#
Member
Executive Director
December 15, 2024
1/1
	
#Inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from December 15, 2024.
	
Notes:
	
1.	
The Chairperson of the Corporate Social Responsibility & Environmental, Social and Governance Committee, Ms. Rekha Murthy is an 
Independent Director.
	
2.	
The quorum was present at all the meetings of Corporate Social Responsibility & Environmental, Social and Governance Committee 
held during the FY 2024-25.
	
3.	
During the FY 2024-25, due to business exigencies, one (1) resolution was passed through circulation and the said resolution was 
noted at the subsequent meeting of Corporate Social Responsibility & Environmental, Social and Governance Committee.
3.f.2	Terms of Reference:
A.	
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
	
On the CSR matters, the Terms of Reference of the CSR & 
ESG Committee shall include the following:
	
1)	
To formulate and recommend to the Board, a 
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy which 
shall indicate the activities to be undertaken 
by the Bank as specified in Schedule VII of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
	
2)	
To recommend the amount of expenditure to 
be incurred on CSR activities as indicated in the 
CSR Policy to the Board in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and rules 
made thereunder.
	
3)	
To 
monitor 
the 
CSR 
Policy 
of 
the 
Bank 
from time to time.
	
4)	
To formulate and recommend to the Board:
	
	
a.	
An annual action plan and status of fund 
utilization, whenever required
	
	
b.	
Details of need and impact assessment, if any, 
for the projects undertaken by the company
	
	
c.	
The list of CSR projects or programmes that 
are approved to be undertaken in areas or 
subjects specified in Schedule VII of the Act
	
	
d.	
The manner of execution of such projects or 
programmes as specified
	
	
e.	
The modalities of utilization of funds 
and 
implementation 
schedules 
for 
the 
projects or programmes;
	
	
f.	
Monitoring and reporting mechanism for 
the projects or programmes; whenever 
required in pursuance of Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy.
	
5)	
To ensure that:
	
	
a.	
The administrative overheads do not exceed 
five percent of total CSR expenditure of the 
company for the financial year,
	
	
b.	
The funds disbursed have been utilized for the 
purposes and in the manner as approved by it 
and the Chief Financial Officer or the person 
responsible for financial management shall 
certify to this effect.
	
6)	
To consider and recommend the Annual CSR Report 
to the Board for approval.
	
7)	
To perform any other function or duty as stipulated 
by the Companies Act, Reserve Bank of India, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India, Stock 
Exchanges and any other regulatory authority or 
under any applicable laws, as may be prescribed 
from time to time.
	
8)	
To formulate and recommend to the Board, the 
Bank’s Donation Policy which shall indicate the 
donations made by the Bank in accordance with RBI 
Guidelines issued on December 21, 2005.
	
9)	
To review and recommend to the Board, the 
independent agency for impact assessment of CSR 
projects, as applicable.
	
10)	 To get updates, if any, from CSR Implementation 
Partners.
265
265
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
B.	
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL & GOVERNANCE (ESG)
	
The CSR & ESG Committee will provide strategic focus, 
oversight and guidance on all matters pertaining to 
the Bank’s Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) 
performance, as detailed below:
1)	
Oversee and review the decisions of the Bank’s 
Sustainability Council and make recommendations 
to the Board on the Bank’s overall ESG strategy 
and performance
2)	
Provide guidance and recommendations on the 
integration of ESG considerations into the Bank’s 
business, in line with macro-level trends and peer 
banks commitment on ESG; global ESG policy 
developments; regulatory requirements
3)	
Review and monitor the Bank’s progress and 
alignment with key global sustainability-led 
frameworks including the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) and Principles for Responsible 
Banking and make recommendations on the Bank’s 
long term ESG objectives and targets
4)	
Oversee and review the Bank’s governance 
frameworks and practices to monitor, assess and 
mitigate ESG related risks and climate risks
5)	
Oversee and guide the Bank’s efforts to capitalize 
on ESG related opportunities and align its business 
to low carbon transition
6)	
Oversee and guide the Bank’s efforts to integrate 
ESG considerations into its operations including, 
alignment of executive performance to ESG targets, 
improvement in eco-efficiency, and transition to 
sustainable supply chains
7)	
Review and recommend to the Board policies 
created from time to time for the implementation 
of the ESG strategy
8)	
Oversee and review the alignment of the 
Bank’s ESG disclosures to global best practices, 
including the requirements of eminent ESG rating 
agencies/ indices
9)	
Oversee 
and 
guide 
the 
Bank’s 
work 
at 
mainstreaming 
ESG 
across 
its 
stakeholder 
spectrum through knowledge and advocacy, 
including internal capacity building initiatives.
10)	 Review the bank’s performance and rating on 2 
(two) globally benchmarked ESG rating platforms –
	
1.	
S&P 
Global 
Corporate 
Sustainability 
Assessment (for assessing ESG performance)
	
2.	
Carbon Disclosure Project (for assessing the 
Bank’s climate change disclosures)
11)	 To review and recommend to the Board, for its 
approval, the Bank’s Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report (BRSR), for the financial year.
g)	
Board Credit Committee:
3.g.1	Composition, meetings and attendance during the year:
	
The 
Board 
Credit 
Committee 
of 
the 
Bank 
presently 
comprises 
of 
four 
members, 
viz., 
Mr. Atul Malik (Chairperson), Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar, 
Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao and Mr. Prashant Kumar. 
There was no change in the composition of Board Credit 
Committee during the FY 2024-25.
	
During the FY 2024-25, Twenty Six (26) meetings of 
Board Credit Committee were held on April 12, 2024, 
April 25, 2024, May 07, 2024, May 22, 2024, June 03, 2024, 
June 13, 2024, June 27, 2024, July 15, 2024, July 26, 2024, 
August 14, 2024, August 27, 2024, September 12, 2024, 
September 27, 2024, October 10, 2024, October 24, 2024, 
October 30, 2024, November 14, 2024, November 28, 
2024, December 12, 2024, December 24, 2024, January 07, 
2025, January 20, 2025, February 12, 2025, February 28, 
2025, March 13, 2025 and March 27, 2025.
	
The composition of the Committee along with the participation of the Members at the meetings of the Committee held 
during the year is as under:
Name of Member
Position
Category
Date of Appointment 
to the Committee
Meetings Attended/ 
Eligible to attend
Mr. Atul Malik
Chairperson
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
26/26
Mr. Prashant Kumar
Member
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer July 29, 2022
24/26
Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar
Member
Non-Executive - Nominee Director of State 
Bank of India
July 29, 2022
26/26
Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao
Member
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
26/26
	
Notes:
	
1.	
The quorum was present at all the Meetings of Board Credit Committee held during the FY 2024-25.
	
2.	
During the FY 2024-25, due to business exigencies, seven (7) resolutions were passed through circulation and the said resolutions 
were noted at the subsequent meetings of Board Credit Committee.
266
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
3.g.2	Terms of Reference:
	
The terms of reference of the Board Credit Committee 
includes the following:
1)	
To approve / review credit proposals that are 
beyond the approval authority of the Management 
Credit  Committee (MCC);
2)	
To approve any other aspects of credit proposals;
3)	
To approve Investment proposals beyond limits / 
thresholds delegated to Asset Liability Management 
Committee (ALCO);
4)	
To approve resolution plans and any other matters 
for stressed assets that are beyond the approval 
authority of the Stressed Asset Management 
Committee (SAMC), including but not limited to 
proposals for settlement of debt;
5)	
To review specific cases that might need special 
attention 
as 
and 
when 
recommended 
by 
MCC/ ALCO/SAMC;
6)	
To approve/review aspects and proposals that 
are specifically delegated to the Board Credit 
Committee  by the Board or as also recommended 
by RBI from time to time:
	
a. 	
Loans and advances to “Directors of other 
Banks / any firm or company in which such 
Directors are interested as a partner, director 
or guarantor or hold substantial interest/ 
‘relatives’ of the Bank’s Chairman/ Managing 
Director or of Directors of other banks / 
any firm or company in which any of such 
‘relatives’ is interested as a partner, director 
or guarantor or hold substantial interest“, 
above the thresholds (i.e. ` 5 crore and ` 0.25 
crore) as defined under RBI guidelines. In case 
where any Bank’s Director is an interested 
person or has any conflict of interest, then 
he/she may recuse themselves from the 
decision making and remaining directors may 
accordingly discuss the proposal. In absence 
of quorum, the proposal may be referred to 
the Board for approval
	
b.	
Financing acquisition of shares in an existing 
company, which is engaged in implementing 
or operating an infrastructure project in India 
adhering to specific conditions pertaining to 
extent of financing, security of shares to be 
obtained and tenor.
	
c.	
Exception approval of additional 5% of the 
Bank’s eligible capital base (over and above 
limit of 20% of the Bank’s eligible capital base) 
for Single Counterparty Limit. Such exceptions 
will be reported to the Board.
	
d.	
Approval for sale of stressed financial assets, 
either basis list identified by the Bank at the 
beginning of year as recommended by Stressed 
Asset 
Management 
Committee 
(SAMC), 
or basis periodic review (on a semi-annual 
basis) of all NPAs above a threshold of ` 25 
crore, or for sale of a stressed asset outside 
of these lists.
7)	
To approve/review credit proposals/transactions 
entered between the Bank as a holding company 
and its subsidiary; also to approve/review credit 
proposals where the terms & conditions of such 
transactions with group entities are inconsistent 
with the terms & conditions/benchmarks/credit 
standards for similarly rated non-group entities, 
subject to sufficient justification;
8)	
To approve/ratify any exceptions to the Board 
approved Credit and Investment Policy, where 
such exceptions are within the overall Regulatory 
Framework 
and 
guidelines. 
The 
reporting 
framework must ensure that such exceptions are 
subsequently highlighted to the RMC/Board;
9)	
To review the minutes of MCC and SAMC;
10)	 To approve Terms of reference of Stressed Asset 
Management Committee (SAMC), Management 
Credit Committee (MCC) and Executive Credit 
Committee (ECC);
11)	 To review the compromise settlements and 
technical write-offs of loan accounts that are 
approved by SAMC as outlined in the Credit Policy 
and are reported to BCC;
12)	 To approve the compromise settlements and 
technical write-offs of loan accounts that are 
within the  approval authority of BCC as outlined in 
the Credit Policy and report such settlements and 
write-offs to  Board;
13)	 To review accounts which are identified for exit by 
SAMC and are reported to Board Credit Committee 
(BCC) on quarterly basis as outlined in the 
Credit Policy; and
14)	 To perform any other function or duty as 
stipulated by the Companies Act, Reserve Bank 
of India,  Securities and Exchange Board of 
India, Stock Exchanges and any other regulatory 
authority or Board of Directors of the Bank or 
under any applicable laws, as may be prescribed 
from time to time.
267
267
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
h)	
IT Strategy Committee:
3.h.1	Composition, meetings and attendance during the year:
	
The IT Strategy Committee of the Bank presently comprises of five (5) members, viz., Ms. Rekha Murthy (Chairperson), 
Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi, Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani, Mr. Prashant Kumar and Dr. Rajan Pental. There was no change 
in the composition of IT Strategy Committee during the FY 2024-25.
	
During the FY 2024-25, Five (5) meetings of IT Strategy Committee were held on May 08, 2024, June 21, 2024, September 04, 
2024, November 11, 2024 and February 13, 2025.
	
The composition of the Committee along with the participation of the Members at the meetings of the Committee held 
during the year is as under:
Name of Member
Position
Category
Date of Appointment 
to the Committee
Meetings Attended/ 
Eligible to attend
Ms. Rekha Murthy
Chairperson
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
5/5
Mr. Prashant Kumar
Member
Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer
July 29, 2022
5/5
Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
Member
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
5/5
Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani
Member
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
4/5
Dr. Rajan Pental
Member
Executive Director
February 15, 2023
4/5
	
Notes:
	
1.	
Mr. Sunil Kaul, Non-Executive Non Independent Director, Nominee of CA Basque Investments was an invitee to the meetings of IT 
Strategy Committee till October 11, 2024, since he ceased to be the Director of the Bank w.e.f. October 11, 2024.
	
2.	
The quorum was present at all the meetings of IT Strategy Committee held during the FY 2024-25.
	
3.	
During the FY 2024-25, no resolution was passed through circulation by the IT Strategy Committee.
3.h.2 Terms of Reference:
	
The terms of reference of the IT Strategy Committee 
includes the following:
1.	
To perform oversight functions over the IT Steering 
Committee and Information Security Steering 
Committee (ISSC) (at a senior management level);
2.	
To review activities within this scope;
3.	
To seek information from any employee;
4.	
To obtain outside legal or professional advice;
5.	
To secure attendance of outsiders with relevant 
expertise, if it considers necessary;
6.	
To work in partnership with other Board committees 
and Senior Management to provide input, review 
and amend the aligned corporate and IT strategies;
7.	
To approve IT strategy and policy documents;
8.	
To review that the management has put an effective 
strategic planning process in place;
9.	
To ratify the IT strategy in alignment with the 
business strategy;
10.	 To provide guidance on the IT organizational 
structure to complements the business model;
11.	 To 
review 
whether 
the 
management 
has 
implemented processes and practices that ensure 
that the IT delivers value to the business;
12.	 Ensure that the budgetary allocations for the IT 
function (including for IT security), cyber security 
are commensurate with the Bank’s IT maturity, 
digital depth, threat environment and industry 
standards and are utilised in a manner intended for 
meeting the stated objectives;
13.	 To monitor the method that management uses 
to determine the IT resources needed to achieve 
strategic goals and provide high-level direction for 
sourcing and use of IT resources;
14.	 To review whether there is a proper balance of IT 
investments for sustaining bank’s growth;
15.	 Ensure that the Bank has put in place processes for 
assessing and managing IT and cybersecurity risks;
268
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
16.	 To assess Senior Management’s performance in 
implementing IT strategies;
17.	 To issue high-level policy guidance (e.g. related to 
risk, funding, or sourcing tasks);
18.	 To confirm whether IT or business architecture 
is to be designed, so as to derive the maximum 
business value from IT;
19.	 To oversee the aggregate funding of IT at a 
bank-level, and ascertaining if the management 
has 
resources 
to 
ensure 
the 
proper 
management of IT risks;
20.	 To review IT performance measurement and 
contribution of IT to businesses (i.e., delivering the 
promised value);
21.	 To approve the Cyber Security Policy and Cyber 
Crisis Management Plan;
22.	 To be aware of the global cyber security 
threat landscape and provide guidance on its 
applicability to the Bank;
23.	 To review the implementation of cyber security 
tools and processes in line with the approved 
policies and regulatory directives;
24.	 To perform any other functions or duties as 
stipulated by the Companies Act, Reserve Bank of 
India, Securities and Exchange Board of India, Stock 
Exchanges and any other regulatory authority or 
under any applicable laws as may be prescribed 
from time to time;
25.	 Annual 
Review 
of 
Prepaid 
Instruments 
Security Policy;
26.	 To review Digital Channels & Payment Products – 
Key Achievements & Metrics for Financial Year;
27.	 To review, at least on annual basis, the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the Business Continuity Planning 
and Disaster Recovery Management of the Bank;
28.	 To review Central Data and analytics advisory/
updates by CDAG team;
29.	 To approve constitution of the Information 
Security Committee (“ISC”) in line with the 
regulatory requirement;
30.	 To have oversight over the ISC;
31.	 To review assessment of IT capacity requirements 
and measures taken to address the issues;
32.	 To annually review the risk management policy 
in respect of IT related risks, including the Cyber 
Security related risks in consultation with Risk 
Management Committee.
33.	 Review of Fintech Policy of the Bank.
i)	
Fraud, 
Willful 
Defaulters 
and 
Non-Cooperative 
Borrowers Monitoring Committee (effective upto 
September 10, 2024):
	
During the year under review, pursuant to RBI’s Master 
Direction on Fraud Risk Management in Commercial 
Banks (including Regional Rural Banks) and All India 
Financial Institutions dated July 15, 2024 and RBI's 
Master Direction  on Treatment of Wilful Defaulters and 
Large Defaulters dated July 30, 2024,  the Fraud, Willful 
Defaulters and Non-Cooperative Borrowers Monitoring 
Committee 
was 
segregated 
into 
two 
seperate 
committees effective September 10, 2024.
3.i.1	Composition, meetings and attendance during the 
year:
	
Composition 
of 
Fraud, 
Willful 
Defaulters 
and 
Non-Cooperative Borrowers Monitoring Committee 
effective up to September 10, 2024:
	
The Fraud, Willful Defaulters and Non-Cooperative 
Borrowers 
Monitoring 
Committee 
of 
the 
Bank 
comprised of five (5) members, viz., Mr. Prashant Kumar 
(Chairperson), Mr. Sharad Sharma, Mr. Sandeep Tewari, 
Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani and Ms. Shweta Jalan. 
There was no change in the composition of Fraud, Willful 
Defaulters and Non-Cooperative Borrowers Monitoring 
Committee till September 10, 2024.
	
During the FY 2024-25, One (1) meeting of Fraud, Willful 
Defaulters and Non-Cooperative Borrowers Monitoring 
Committee was held on April 24, 2024.
269
269
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
The composition of the Committee along with the participation of the Members at the meeting of the Committee held during 
the year is as under:
Name of Member
Position
Category
Date of Appointment 
to the Committee
Meetings Attended/ 
Eligible to attend
Mr. Prashant Kumar
Chairperson
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
July 29, 2022
1/1
Mr. Sharad Sharma
Member
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
1/1
Mr. Sandeep Tewari
Member
Non-Executive-Nominee Director of State 
Bank of India
July 29, 2022
1/1
Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani
Member
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
1/1
Ms. Shweta Jalan
Member
Non-Executive Non Independent Director
December 13, 2022
1/1
	
Notes:
	
1.	
The quorum was present at all the Meetings of Fraud, Willful Defaulters and Non-Cooperative Borrowers Monitoring Committee held 
during the FY 2024-25.
	
2.	
During the FY 2024-25, there was no resolution passed through circulation by the Fraud, Willful Defaulters and Non-Cooperative 
Borrowers Monitoring Committee.
3.i.2	Terms of Reference:
	
The terms of reference of the Fraud, Willful Defaulters 
and Non-Cooperative Borrowers Monitoring Committee 
includes following:
1)	
To monitor and review in detail all frauds, involving 
an amount of ` 1 crore and above so as to:
	
a.	
Identify the systematic lacunae, if any, that 
can facilitate perpetration of the fraud and put 
in place measures to plug the same;
	
b.	
Identify reasons for delay in detection and 
reporting of frauds to the top management of 
the Bank and the Reserve Bank of India and 
other Law Enforcement Agencies;
	
c.	
Monitor progress of the investigations 
conducted by the Police/Central Bureau 
of Investigation/ Economic Offences Wing 
or any other similar Law Enforcement 
Agencies in respect of the cases and recovery 
position thereof
	
d.	
Ensure that staff accountability is examined 
at all levels in the cases of frauds and action 
against staff, if required, is completed quickly, 
with minimum loss of time;
	
e.	
Review the efficacy of the remedial action 
taken to prevent recurrence of frauds, such as 
strengthening of internal control environment;
2)	
To review update on Forensic Audit of ‘Red Flagged 
Accounts’ (RFAs), Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) 
and Suspected Fraud (SF) Accounts;
3)	
To review electronic banking frauds/cyber frauds;
4)	
To review and confirm the order of the Executive 
Committee for Classification of borrowers as 
“Non-Cooperative Borrowers” or “Willful Defaulter”;
5)	
To 
review 
the 
status 
of 
“Non-Cooperative 
Borrowers” or “Willful Defaulters” at least on half 
yearly basis or at such other intervals as may be 
required by RBI;
6)	
To decide on removal of the names from the 
list of “Non-Cooperative Borrowers” or “Willful 
Defaulters” as reported to Central Repository of 
Information of Large Credits (CRILC);
7)	
To review, note and decide on any matter 
pertaining to “Non-Cooperative Borrowers” or 
“Willful Defaulters”.
8)	
To monitor any delays in closure of proceedings in 
relation to “Willful Defaulters” beyond 120 days;
9)	
To review/ consider publication of the photographs 
of borrowers, including proprietors/ partners/
directors/ 
guarantors 
of 
borrower 
firms/ 
companies, who have been declared as Willful 
Defaulters and Non-Cooperative Borrowers; and
10)	 To perform any other act, duties as provided under 
the Companies Act, or stipulated by the Reserve 
Bank of India, Securities & Exchange Board of 
India, Stock Exchanges, and any other regulatory 
authority, as prescribed from time to time.
11)	 Noting of the minutes of Executive Committee 
for 
Classification 
of 
Willful 
Defaulter 
& 
Non-Cooperative Borrowers.
12)	 To 
approve 
ToR 
of 
Executive 
Committee 
for 
Classification 
of 
Willful 
Defaulters 
& 
Non-Cooperative Borrowers.
270
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
j) 	
Special Committee of The Board For Monitoring And 
Follow-Up of Frauds (w.e.f. September 10, 2024):
	
During the year under review, pursuant to RBI’s Master 
Direction on Fraud Risk Management in Commercial Banks 
(including Regional Rural Banks) and All India Financial 
Institutions dated July 15, 2024 the Board constituted 
a Special Committee of the Board for Monitoring and 
Follow-up of Frauds w.e.f. September 10, 2024.
3.j.1	Composition, meetings and attendance during the year:
	
The Special Committee of the Board for Monitoring and 
Follow-Up of Frauds of the Bank presently comprises of 
four (4) members, viz., Mr. Sandeep Tewari (Chairperson), 
Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani, Mr. Shivakumar Dega and 
Mr. Manish Jain.
	
During the year under review, Mr. Prashant Kumar ceased 
to be member of committee with effect from close of 
business hours on December 15, 2024 and Mr. Manish Jain 
was inducted as a member of the Committee with effect 
from December 15, 2024.
	
During the FY 2024-25, Three (3) meeting of Special 
Committee of the Board for Monitoring and Follow-Up 
of Frauds were held on October 18, 2024, December 18, 
2024 and March 20, 2025.
	
The composition of the Committee along with the 
participation of the Members at the meetings of the 
Committee held during the year is as under:
Name of Member
Position
Category
Date of Appointment 
to the Committee
Meetings Attended/ 
Eligible to attend
Mr. Sandeep Tewari
Chairperson
Non-Executive-Nominee Director of State 
Bank of India
September 10, 2024
3/3
Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani
Member
Independent Director
September 10, 2024
3/3
Ms. Shweta Jalan
Member
Non-Executive Non Independent Director
September 10, 2024
2/3
Mr. Prashant Kumar*
Member
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
September 10, 2024
1/1
Mr. Manish Jain#
Member
Executive Director
December 15, 2024
1/2
	
*Ceased to be Member of the Committee effective from December 15, 2024
	
# Inducted as a member of the Committee effective from December 15, 2024
	
Notes:
	
1.	
The quorum was present at all the Meetings of Special Committee of the Board for Monitoring and Follow-Up of Frauds held during 
the FY 2024-25.
	
2.	
During the FY 2024-25, there was no resolution passed through circulation by the Special Committee of the Board for Monitoring and 
Follow-Up of Frauds.
3.j.2	Terms of Reference:
	
The terms of reference of the Special Committee of 
The Board for Monitoring And Follow-Up of Frauds 
includes following:
1.	
To oversee the effectiveness of the fraud risk 
management and to review and monitor cases of 
frauds, including root cause analysis, and suggest 
mitigating measures for strengthening the internal 
controls, 
risk 
management 
framework 
and 
minimizing the incidence of frauds.
2.	
To review and discuss in detail the individual cases 
of fraud pertaining to:
	
-	
Liability 
Products 
amounting 
to 
INR 
25 lacs and above
	
-	
Assets amounting to INR 1Cr & above
	
-	
Staff Frauds - All cases
	
All other cases to be presented in consolidated/
summary format for review to the committee.
3.	
To review the minutes of Fraud and Suspicious 
Activity Monitoring Committee (FASCOM) including 
any risks and mitigants as highlighted by FASCOM
4.	
To review and monitor the recommendation 
of 
FASCOM 
for 
preventing 
the 
future 
occurrences of Fraud.
5.	
To review the cases remaining in red-flagged 
status beyond 180 days with adequate reasoning / 
justification thereof.
6.	
To monitor and review in detail all frauds so as to:
	
a)	
Identify the systematic lacunae, if any, that 
can facilitate perpetration of the fraud and put 
in place measures to plug the same;
271
271
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
The composition of the Committee along with the participation of the Members at the meeting of the Committee held 
during the year is as under:
Name of Member
Position
Category
Date of Appointment 
to the Committee
Meetings Attended/ 
Eligible to attend
Mr. Prashant Kumar
Chairperson
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
September 10, 2024
1/1
Mr. Atul Malik
Member
Independent Director
September 10, 2024
1/1
Mr. Sharad Sharma
Member
Independent Director
September 10, 2024
1/1
Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar
Member
Non-Executive Director
(Nominee Director of State Bank of India)
September 10, 2024
1/1
Mr. Manish Jain#
Member
Executive director
December 15, 2024
1/1
	
#Inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from December 15, 2024.
	
Notes:
	
1.	
The nomenclature of the Committee has been changed from “Review Committee for Classification and Declaration of Wilful Defaulters 
and Large Defaulters” to “Review Committee for Classification and Declaration of Wilful Defaulters” at the Board Meeting held on 
April 19, 2025.
	
2.	
The quorum was present at the Meeting of Review Committee for Classification and Declaration of Wilful Defaulters held during 
the FY 2024-25.
	
3.	
During the FY 2024-25, there was no resolution passed through circulation by the Review Committee for Classification and Declaration 
of Wilful Defaulters.
	
b)	
Identify reasons for delay in detection and 
reporting of frauds to the top management of 
the Bank and the Reserve Bank of India and 
other Law Enforcement Agencies;
	
c)	
Monitor 
progress 
of 
the 
investigations 
conducted by the Police/Central Bureau 
of Investigation/ Economic Offences Wing 
or any other similar Law Enforcement 
Agencies in respect of the cases and recovery 
position thereof;
	
d)	
Ensure that staff accountability is examined 
at all levels in the cases of frauds and action 
against staff, if required, is completed quickly, 
with minimum loss of time;
	
e)	
Review the efficacy of the remedial action 
taken to prevent recurrence of frauds, such as 
strengthening of internal control environment;
7.	
To review electronic banking frauds/cyber frauds;
8.	
To perform any other act, duties as provided under 
the Companies Act, or stipulated by the Reserve 
Bank of India, Securities & Exchange Board of 
India, Stock Exchanges, and any other regulatory 
authority, as prescribed from time to time.
k) 	
Review Committee for Classification and Declaration of 
Wilful Defaulters (w.e.f. September 10, 2024):
	
During the year under review, pursuant to RBI’sMaster 
Direction on Treatment of Wilful Defaulters and Large 
Defaulters dated July 30, 2024 the Board constituted 
Review Committee for Classification and Declaration of 
Wilful Defaulters w.e.f. September 10, 2024.
3.k.1	Composition, meetings and attendance during the year:
	
The 
Review 
Committee 
for 
Classification 
and 
Declaration of Wilful Defaulters presently comprises 
of four (4) members, viz., Mr. Prashant Kumar 
(Chairperson), Mr. Atul Malik, Mr. Sharad Sharma and 
Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar.
	
During the year under review, Mr. Manish Jain was 
inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from 
December 15, 2024.
	
During the FY 2024-25, 1 (one) meeting of Review 
Committee for Classification and Declaration of Wilful 
Defaulters was held during the year on March 13, 2025.
272
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
3.k.2	Terms of Reference:
	
The terms of reference of the Review Committee for 
Classification and Declaration of Wilful Defaulters 
includes the following:
1.	
To review and confirm the order of the Executive 
Committee for Classification of borrowers as 
“Wilful Defaulter”;
2.	
To review the status of “Wilful Defaulters” at least 
on half yearly basis or at such other intervals as 
may be required by RBI;
3.	
To review the findings of the Executive Committee, 
borrower’s 
response, 
give 
opportunity 
of 
hearing to the defaulter, and carefully, and with 
reasoning, give its ultimate decision on tagging the 
defaulter as wilful;
4.	
To review, note and decide on any matter pertaining 
to “Wilful Defaulters”;
5.	
To monitor any delays in closure of proceedings in 
relation to “Wilful Defaulters” beyond 120 days;
6.	
To review/ consider publication of the photographs 
of borrowers, including proprietors/ partners/
directors/ 
guarantors 
of 
borrower 
firms/ 
companies, who have been declared as Wilful 
Defaulter;
7.	
To check if initiation of criminal proceedings 
against Wilful Defaulters under the provisions of 
the applicable law, is warranted where Defaulted 
Outstanding Amount is > INR 10 crs;
8.	
Noting of the minutes of Executive Committee (RC II 
& IC I) for Classification of Wilful Defaulter;
9.	
To approve Terms of Reference of Executive 
Committees for classification & Identification/ (RC 
II , IC I & IC II) of Wilful Defaulters;
10.	 Strengthening/Modification of internal controls 
and 
processes 
to 
prevent/reduce 
future 
such occurrences;
11.	 To perform any other act, duties as provided under 
the Companies Act, or stipulated by the Reserve 
Bank of India, Securities & Exchange Board of 
India, Stock Exchanges, and any other regulatory 
authority, as prescribed from time to time.
l.	
Capital Raising Committee:
3.l.1	Composition, meetings and attendance during the year:
	
The Capital Raising Committee of the Bank presently 
comprises of six members, viz., Mr. Rama Subramaniam 
Gandhi 
(Chairperson), 
Mr. 
Sandeep 
Tewari, 
Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani, Mr. Shivakumar Dega, 
Mr. Prashant Kumar and Mr. Manish Jain.
	
During the year under review, Mr. Sunil Kaul ceased to be 
member of the Committee with effect from October 11, 
2024 and Mr. Manish Jain was inducted as a member of 
the Committee with effect from December 15, 2024.
	
During the FY 2024-25, no meeting of Capital Raising 
Committee was held.
	
The composition of the Committee along with the participation of the Members at the meeting of the Committee held 
during the year is as under:
Name of Member
Position
Category
Date of Appointment 
to the Committee
Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
Chairperson
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
Mr. Prashant Kumar
Member
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
July 29, 2022
Mr. Sandeep Tewari
Member
Non-Executive Director
(Nominee Director of State Bank of India)
July 29, 2022
Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani
Member
Independent Director
July 29, 2022
Mr. Sunil Kaul*
Member
Non-Executive - Non Independent Director
December 13, 2022
Mr. Manish Jain#
Member
Executive Director
December 15, 2024
Ms. Shweta Jalan
Member
Non-Executive Non Independent Director
December 13, 2022
	
*Ceased to be Member of the Committee effective from October 11, 2024 due to his resignation as Director of the Bank.
	
#Inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from December 15, 2024.
	
Notes:
	
1.	
During the FY 2024-25, there was no resolution passed through circulation by the Capital Raising Committee.
273
273
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4. 	 Details of Senior Management Personnel:
	
Particulars of Senior Management Personnel (“SMP”) and changes since the close of the previous financial year:
Name of the SMP
Designation
Changes since the 
close of previous 
financial year (Yes/No)
Nature of change and Effective date
Mr. Niranjan Banodkar
Chief Financial Officer
No
-
Mr. Shivanand R. Shettigar
Company Secretary
Yes
Ceased on March 31, 2025 pursuant to his 
attainment of superannuation
Mr. Sanjay Abhyankar
Company Secretary
Yes
Appointed w.e.f. April 1, 2025
Mr. Rajat Chhalani
Chief Compliance Officer
No
-
Mr. Tushar Patankar
Chief Risk Officer
No
-
Mr. Rakesh Arya
Chief Credit Risk Officer
No
-
Mr. Sachin Raut
Chief Operating Officer
No
-
Mr. Kapil Juneja
Chief Internal Auditor
No
-
Mr. Sandeep Mehra
Chief Vigilance Officer
Yes
Ceased on December 13, 2024
Mr. Binu Soman
Chief Vigilance Officer
Yes
Appointed w.e.f. December 14, 2024
Ms. Archana Shiroor
Chief Human Resources Officer
No
-
Mr. Manish Jain
Country Head – Wholesale Banking
Yes
Appointed as an Executive Director  
w.e.f. December 11, 2024
3.l.2	Terms of Reference:
	
The broad terms of reference of the Capital Raising 
Committee includes the following:
1)	
To analyse various options for infusion of capital and 
funds by issue of various securities including equity 
shares, preference shares, debentures, bonds, 
BASEL III compliant Tier I & Tier II Instruments, 
other debt securities, etc.;
2)	
To consider any type of capital re-organisation 
like consolidation of stock, stock split etc. 
and recommend to the Board of Directors thereof;
3)	
To consider bonus shares issue and related 
arrangements and recommend to the Board of 
Directors thereof;
4)	
To approve issue of securities in one or more 
tranches to various potential Investors within 
the overall limit as approved by the Board / 
Shareholders and determine price/price range for 
the securities;
5)	
To approve early redemption of bond/debenture/ 
Medium term note and other securities which 
represent debt on the Bank;
6)	
To engage/appoint agencies related to capital 
and fund raising exercise and early redemption of 
bond/debenture/ Medium term note and other 
securities which represent debt on the Bank as 
the case may be;
7)	
To authorise / approve necessary expenditure 
relating to capital and fund raising exercise and 
early redemption of bond/debenture/ Medium 
term note and other securities which represent 
debt on the Bank;
8)	
To authorise the Management to approach the 
Regulators/ bondholders/ debenture trustee/ 
Stock Exchange for obtaining consent in connection 
with such early redemption (whether through 
buyback and extinguishment or direct redemption);
9)	
To perform all activities with regard to fund raising 
by various methods/means/options under the 
authority of Board and Shareholders; 
10)	 To do all such acts, deeds as the Board may 
delegate in connection with the capital and fund 
raising exercise and early redemption of bond/
debenture/ Medium term note and other securities 
which represent debt on the Bank (whether through 
buyback and extinguishment or direct redemption) 
and take all steps which are incidental and ancillary 
in this connection;
11)	 Any other critical matters pertaining to share capital 
/ shareholding of the Bank.
274
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Name of the SMP
Designation
Changes since the 
close of previous 
financial year (Yes/No)
Nature of change and Effective date
Mr. Amit Sureka
Country Head - Financial Markets
Yes
Ceased on August 27, 2024
Mr. Nirav Dalal
Country Head - Financial Markets
Yes
Appointed on October 16, 2024
Mr. Pankaj Sharma
Chief Strategy and Transformation 
Officer
Yes
Ceased on July 2, 2025
Mr. Dhavan Shah
Country Head - SME Banking
Yes
Ceased on April 22, 2025
Mr. Akshay Sapru
Country Head – Affluent and 
Private Banking, Liabilities Products
Yes
Ceased on June 4, 2025
Mr. Sanjiv Kumar Roy
Country Head Fee Based Products
Yes
Ceased on June 3, 2025
Mr. Mahesh Ramamoorthy Chief Information Officer
No
-
Mr. Lavesh Sardana
Country Head Retail Assets and 
Debt Management
Yes
Ceased on November 20, 2024
Mr. Sumit Bali
Country Head Retail Assets and 
Debt Management
Yes
Appointed w.e.f. August 26, 2024
Mr. Dheeraj Sanghi
Country Head – Retail Liabilities, 
Fees and Business Banking
No
-
Mr. Nipun Kaushal
Chief Marketing Officer and Head 
CSR
No
-
Mr. Anil Singh
Country Head Credit Cards and 
Merchant Acquiring
No
-
Mr. Gaurav Goel
Country Head Commercial Banking
No
-
Mr. Ajay Rajan
Country Head - Transaction 
Banking, Government, Multinational 
& New Economy Business, IFSC 
Branch & Knowledge Units
No
-
Mr. Indranil Pan
Chief Economist
No
-
Mr. Karthikeyan J
Chief Data and Analytics Officer
Yes
Ceased on May 28, 2024 due to change in 
reporting hierarchy
Mr. Mehul Desai
Zonal Head Large Corporates West
Yes
Appointed w.e.f. December 26, 2024 and 
ceased w.e.f. May 13, 2025 as SMP due to 
organisation restructuring.
Mr. Naveen Chaluvadi
Chief Digital Officer
Yes
Appointed w.e.f. December 26, 2024
Mr. Parminder Singh
Country Head Large Corporates
Yes
Appointed w.e.f. December 26, 2024
Mr. Santosh Mishra
Business Head PSL and 
Microfinance
Yes
Appointed w.e.f. May 13, 2025 as SMP due 
to internal re-organisation
Mr. Mukesh Kumar
National Head Project Finance and 
Loan Syndication
Yes
Appointed w.e.f. May 13, 2025 as SMP due 
to internal re-organisation
Mr. Ashish Dadhich
Country Head Financial Institutions
Yes
Appointed w.e.f. May 13, 2025 as SMP due 
to internal re-organisation
275
275
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5.	
DISCLOSURES:
(a)	
Related Party Transactions:
	
During the year under review, the Bank has entered into 
transactions with the related parties in the ordinary 
course of business, except the following transaction with 
YES Securities India Limited ('YSIL'), subsidiary of the 
Bank for which necessary approvals were taken from the 
Board of Directors:
	
Capital Infusion by the Bank upto ` 150 crores in YSIL by 
way of rights issue.
	
The Bank has not entered into any materially significant 
transactions with the related parties including Directors, 
Key Managerial Personnel, Subsidiaries or Relatives of 
the Directors, which could lead to a potential conflict 
of interest. The details of the transactions with related 
parties, were placed before the Audit Committee of the 
Board of the Bank from time to time. There were no 
material individual transactions required to be reported 
under Section 188(1) of the Act, in form AOC-2. 
Suitable disclosure as required by the Accounting 
Standards (AS-18) and the RBI Master Direction on 
Financial Statements - Presentation and Disclosure 
(last updated on April 1, 2024) have been made in the 
notes to the Financial Statements. Further, the Bank 
has submitted with the Stock Exchanges and also 
published on the Bank’s website disclosure on Related 
Party Transactions, drawn in accordance with applicable 
requirements of Regulation 23(9) of SEBI LODR for the 
half year ended September 30, 2024 and March 31, 2025.
	
The Board of Directors have formulated a Policy on 
dealing with Related Party Transactions pursuant to 
the provisions of the Act and SEBI LODR. The same 
is displayed on the website of the Bank at https://
www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=policies_pdf6.pdf
(b)	
Strictures and Penalties by statutory authority for 
last three financial years FY 2022-23, 2023-24 and 
2024-25:
	
(i)	
AT-1 Bonds
	
	
SEBI 
issued 
a 
Show 
Cause 
Notice 
dated 
October 28, 2020 to the Bank and other noticee(s) 
(ex-employees of the Bank) alleging violation of 
provisions of SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and 
Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) 
Regulations, 2003. Thereafter, SEBI vide its order 
dated April 12, 2021 imposed a penalty of ` 25 crore 
on the Bank under Section 15HA of SEBI Act, 1992 
for the alleged mis-selling of Additional Tier -1 
Bonds in the secondary market. Penalties were also 
imposed on other noticee(s).
	
	
Aggrieved by the above-mentioned SEBI order, 
the Bank and other noticee(s) preferred separate 
Appeal(s) before the Hon’ble Securities Appellate 
Tribunal, Mumbai (“SAT”). On May 18, 2021, SAT 
was pleased to stay the effect and operation of 
the SEBI order dated April 12, 2021. After multiple 
adjournments, the Appeals are now listed on 
September 08, 2025 for hearing.
	
(ii)	
Mis-use of client securities
	
	
On January 22, 2021, the Bank received a Show 
Cause Notice (“SCN”) from NSE Clearing Limited 
(“NCL”) informing that they had conducted a Limited 
Purpose Inspection of the Bank with respect to 
trading member Action Financial Services (India) 
Limited (“AFSIL”)  to find out whether there has 
been an event of mis-use of client securities. 
Accordingly, it was observed that the Bank had 
sold client securities amounting to ` 1.95 crore 
and hence is in violation of SEBI Circular(s) and 
Regulation(s). Thereafter, on May 03, 2021, NCL 
passed an order against the Bank to reinstate the 
securities wrongfully disposed of as detailed in the 
SCN and imposed a penalty of ` 1.95 lakh. NCL also 
directed the Bank to comply with the order within 
15 days from the date of receipt of the order.
	
	
Aggrieved by the NCL order dated May 03, 2021, 
the Bank preferred an Appeal before the Securities 
Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai (“SAT”). SAT vide its 
order dated May 17, 2021 was pleased to stay the 
effect and operation of the NCL order dated May 03, 
2021. However, the Hon’ble SAT vide its order dated 
December 15, 2023, dismissed the appeal filed by 
the Bank and upheld the NCL order. Aggrieved by 
the same, the Bank has preferred an appeal before 
the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India.
	
	
In the interim, the Bank vide its letter dated 
December 28, 2023, had given an undertaking to 
NCL that it shall not utilize the collateral/margin 
money aggregating to ` 7 crore till the matter is 
finally adjudicated by the Hon’ble Supreme Court 
of India. The appeal filed by the Bank before the 
Hon’ble Supreme Court of India was listed on 
February 26, 2024, wherein the Hon’ble Supreme 
Court has tagged the matter along with the appeal 
filed by Edelweiss Custodial Services Limited, which 
is yet to be listed.
276
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
(c)	
Vigil Mechanism/ Whistle Blower Policy:
	
In compliance with the provisions of the Act and SEBI 
LODR and other applicable laws and in accordance with 
principles of good corporate governance, the Bank has 
devised and implemented a Vigil Mechanism, in the 
form of ‘Whistle Blower Policy’. The policy devised is 
also aligned to the recommendations of Protected 
Disclosure Scheme for Private Sector Banks and Foreign 
Banks, instituted by RBI. This policy enables a Whistle 
Blower to raise concerns relating to reportable matters 
(as elucidated in the said policy) such as non-adherence 
to the Code of Conduct, suspected/ actual fraud, 
corruption, misuse of office, criminal offences, financial 
irregularities, insider trading violations etc., without 
fear of reprisals and to provide for independent 
investigation. The framework of the policy endeavours 
to simplify and smoothen the process for Whistle 
Blower and foster responsible reporting, a Whistle 
Blower cannot resort to the Whistle Blower Policy to 
report his/ her personal grievances. The concerns can 
be raised through ‘Corporate Whistle Blower Initiative’ 
(CWI) portal, which is an independent online reporting 
service aimed at facilitating a secure communication 
between 
the 
Whistle 
Blower 
and 
independent 
Whistleblower Committee constituted by the Bank. 
The policy has provisions to safeguard Whistle Blower 
against victimisation. As a responsible and vigilant 
organisation, the Bank encourages responsible and 
fearless reporting of genuine concerns or grievances and 
also provides for direct access to the Chairperson of the 
Audit Committee, in exceptional cases. The functioning 
of the Vigil Mechanism is reviewed by the Audit 
Committee regularly. None of the personnel of the 
Bank have been denied access to the Audit Committee. 
The details of the Whistle Blower Policy are available 
on the website of the Bank at https://www.yesbank.in/
pdf?name=whistleblowerpolicy.pdf.
(d)	
Compliance with Mandatory Requirements of the SEBI 
LODR & Adoption of Non-mandatory Requirements of 
the SEBI LODR:
	
The Board of Directors reviews the compliance of all 
applicable laws every quarter. The Bank has in place a 
compliance framework for adherence to the mandatory 
requirements of Corporate Governance norms as 
specified in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) 
and (t) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of the SEBI 
LODR to the extent applicable to the Bank.
	
In addition to the mandatory requirements, the Bank has 
also adopted the following non-mandatory requirements 
as suggested in Part E of Schedule II read with Regulation 
27(1) of the SEBI LODR:
	
A.	
The Board: The Bank has a non-executive 
Chairperson who is entitled to maintain an office at 
the Bank’s expense and also allowed reimbursement 
of expenses incurred in performance of his duties.
	
B.	
Shareholder Rights: A half-yearly declaration of 
financial performance including summary of the 
significant events in last six-months though are not 
being sent to each household of shareholders, the 
same are presented to Investors/Analysts in their 
meeting and issued as a press release to reach out 
to the general public. The copy of the presentation 
is also made available on Bank’s website for 
shareholders information.
	
C.	
Unmodified opinion(s) in audit report: During the 
year under review, there is no audit qualification 
in the Bank’s standalone and consolidated 
financial statements.
	
D.	
Separate posts of Chairperson and the Managing 
Director or the Chief Executive Officer: The Bank has 
separate post of the Chairperson and the Managing 
Director and CEO. Whilst Mr. Rama Subramaniam 
Gandhi is the Chairperson, Mr. Prashant Kumar is 
the Managing Director and CEO of the Bank.
	
	
Further, 
the 
Chairperson 
of 
the 
Bank 
is 
Non-Executive Director and not related to 
the Managing Director and CEO of the Bank 
as per the definition of the term “relative” 
defined under the Act.
	
E.	
Reporting of Internal Auditor: The Chief Internal 
Auditor of the Bank reports directly to the 
Audit Committee.
(e)	
Subsidiary Companies:
	
The Bank did not have any material subsidiary during 
the FY 2024-25. The Bank has formulated a policy for 
determining ‘material’ subsidiaries pursuant to the 
provisions of the SEBI LODR and the same is displayed 
on the website of the Bank at https://www.yesbank.
in/pdf?name=Policy_for_Determining_Material_
Subsidiaries.pdf.
	
The Bank has one Subsidiary as at March 31, 2025 viz., 
YES Securities (India) Limited (“YSIL/Subsidiary”).
	
The Financial Statements (including the audited 
Annual Financial Statements) of the subsidiary and the 
investments made by the unlisted subsidiary were placed 
at the meetings of the Audit Committee of the Bank on 
quarterly basis. Further, the minutes of the meetings of 
277
277
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
the Board of Directors of the subsidiary were placed at 
the meetings of the Board of Directors of the Bank on 
quarterly basis for their noting. Statement of significant 
transactions/arrangements entered into by the unlisted 
subsidiary company of the Bank were also placed at 
the meetings of the Board of Directors of the Bank on 
quarterly basis, for their review.
(f)	
Disclosure of commodity price risks and commodity 
hedging activities:
	
Information on the commodity price risk or foreign 
exchange risk and hedging activities in the Bank:
	
The Bank has a Board approved Market Risk policy 
which defines risk control framework for undertaking 
any Commodity price risk and Foreign exchange risk. 
Vide Market Risk policy, Board of the Bank has defined 
overall Net Overnight Open Position (NOOP) Limit, Stop 
Loss Limit, Aggregate Gap limit (AGL), Value at Risk (VaR) 
limit to control the Commodity Price / Foreign exchange 
risk within its risk control framework. The Bank has not 
undertaken any commodity price risk during the period. 
The Bank has undertaken all commodity transactions on 
back to back basis. Further, the Bank has not exceeded 
any of its Board approved risk limit framework with 
respect to Foreign Exchange Risk during the period.
	
The Bank uses Derivatives including Forwards & 
swaps for hedging its currency risk in its balance 
sheet, customer offerings and proprietary trading in 
compliance with overall risk limit and control framework. 
The management of these products and businesses 
is governed by Board approved Market Risk Policy, 
Investment Policy, Derivatives Policy, Hedging Policy and 
ALM Policy of the Bank.
	
Whether 
the 
commodity 
price 
risks 
and 
commodity hedging activities are disclosed to the 
shareholders / public:
	
The Bank has not undertaken any commodity price 
risk during the period. The Bank has undertaken all 
commodity transactions on back to back basis.
(g)	
Details of utilisation of funds raised through preferential 
allotment or qualified institutions placement as 
specified under Regulation 32 (7A) of SEBI LODR:
	
During the year under review, the Bank has allotted 
2,559,761,818 equity shares of ` 2/- each pursuant 
to exercise of share warrants by both the allottees 
for 1,279,880,909 equity shares to each allotee upon 
receipt of ` 28,451.75 million that represents 75% of the 
issue price of ` 14.82 per share warrant. The funds raised 
through such Preferential Allotment were utilised for the 
purpose for which they were issued. In addition, during 
the FY 2024-25, no funds were raised through Qualified 
Institution Placements.
(h)	
Certificate under Regulation 34(3) of SEBI LODR:
	
The Bank has obtained a Certificate pursuant to the 
Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V of the SEBI 
LODR, from M/s. BNP & Associates, Practicing Company 
Secretaries, Mumbai, confirming that none of the 
Directors on the Board of the Bank have been debarred 
or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as 
Directors of the Companies either by Securities and 
Exchange Board of India or the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs or any other Statutory Authorities. The mentioned 
certificate forms part of this report.
(i)	
Recommendations of Committee not accepted by 
Board:
	
There are no recommendations of the Committees that 
are not accepted by the Board of Directors.
(j)	
Fees paid to Statutory Auditors:
	
The total fees incurred by the Bank and its subsidiary 
on 
a 
consolidated 
basis 
for 
the 
year 
ended 
March 31, 2025, for services rendered by Statutory 
auditors is given below:
 Amount in (`)
Company
Audit Fee
Certification 
Fee
Out of Pocket
Expenses
Total
YBL
35,000,000
1,990,000
1,775,920
38,765,920
Subsidiary 2,100,000
NA
119,172
2,219,172
	
Note:
	
No services have been availed from network firm of statutory 
auditor. Above numbers does not include taxes which are paid 
on actual basis.
(k)	
Disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013:
Particulars
No. of 
Complaints
Number of Complaints carried forward from 
last year (FY24)
04
Number of Complaints filed during the 
Financial Year (FY25)
30
Number of Complaints disposed off during 
the Financial Year (FY25)
21
Number of Complaints pending as on the 
end of the Financial Year (FY25)
13*
	
Investigation for 4 cases were closed beyond 90 days due to 
unavoidable circumstances.
	
*The investigation for all the pending cases is completed as on 
July 19, 2025 i.e. the Date of the Report.
278
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
(l)	
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics:
	
The Board has formulated and adopted Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics for the Board of Directors and Senior 
Management. The said Code was reviewed and approved 
by the Board at its meeting held on October 26, 2024 
and is hosted on the website of the Bank at https://
www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=Code_of_Business_
Conduct_Ethics_for_the_Board_of_Directors_and_
Senior_Management.pdf
	
The declaration signed by the Managing Director & 
CEO of the Bank stating that the members of Board 
of Directors and Senior Management Personnel have 
affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct of Board 
of Directors and Senior Management is annexed and 
forms part of this Report.
(m)	 Compliance Certificate for the Corporate Governance:
	
The Bank has obtained certificate affirming the 
compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance from 
M/s. BNP & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries, 
Mumbai which forms part of this report. M/s. BNP & 
Associates has confirmed that the Bank has complied 
with the conditions of Corporate Governance as 
prescribed under SEBI LODR.
(n)	
Disclosures with respect to Demat Suspense Account/ 
Unclaimed Suspense Account:
	
The Bank had issued and posted share certificates upon 
receipt of the remat requests from the shareholders. 
However, certain share certificates were returned 
undelivered and remain unclaimed.
	
Pursuant to Regulation 39(4) read with Schedule VI of the 
SEBI LODR, all shares issued pursuant to any issue which 
remain unclaimed shall be transferred by the Company 
to “Unclaimed Suspense Account”.
	
The Bank has sent three reminders to the shareholders 
whose share certificates were returned undelivered. 
There were 27 shareholders whose 10,604 Shares 
in the aggregate were liable to be transferred to YBL 
Unclaimed 
Securities 
Suspense 
Escrow 
Account. 
Pursuant to Schedule VI, these 10,604 unclaimed shares 
were transferred to YBL Unclaimed Securities Suspense 
Escrow Account during the FY 2024-25.
	
Details in respect of Equity Shares lying in the Suspense Account:
Particulars
Number of 
Shareholders
Number of 
Equity Shares
Aggregate Number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the Suspense Account lying as 
on April 1, 2024
63
28,688
Number of shares transferred to Suspense account during the FY 2024-25
27
10,604
Number of shareholders who approached the Bank for transfer of shares from Suspense Account 
during the year
2
661
Number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from suspense account during the year
2
661
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense account lying as on 
March 31, 2025
88
38,631
	
The voting rights on the shares in the suspense account shall remain frozen till the rightful owners of such shares 
claims the shares.
(o)	
Managing Director & CEO / CFO Certification:
	
The Managing Director & CEO and the Chief Financial 
Officer have issued certificate pursuant to the provisions 
of Regulation 17(8) of the SEBI LODR, for the FY 2024-25 
and the same was placed before the Board of Directors 
at its meeting held on April 19, 2025.
	
The Certificate certifies that the Financial Statements 
do not contain any materially untrue statement and 
these statements represent a true and fair view of the 
Company’s affairs. They also certify that, to the best of 
their knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into 
during the year were fraudulent, illegal or violative of 
the Code of Conduct of the Bank, they are responsible 
for establishment and maintenance of the Internal 
Financial Controls for financial reporting and they have 
indicated to the auditors and the Audit Committee about 
any significant changes in internal control over financial 
reporting, significant changes in the accounting policies 
and instances of significant frauds, if any, which they 
were aware. The said certificate is annexed and forms 
part of this Annual Report.
279
279
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(p)	
Code of Conduct for Prohibition of Insider Trading:
	
The Bank has formulated the Code of Conduct for 
Prohibition of Insider Trading (“Bank’s Code”), in 
accordance with the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015 (the “PIT Regulations”), as amended 
from time to time, to regulate, monitor and report 
trading by the Designated Persons specified therein and 
their Immediate Relatives in securities of the Bank and 
for dealing in securities listed or proposed to be listed 
(other than securities of the Bank), by the Designated 
Persons specified therein and their Immediate Relatives, 
and enumerating practices and procedures for Fair 
Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information.
	
Thus, 
the 
Bank 
endeavours 
to 
preserve 
the 
confidentiality 
of 
Unpublished 
Price 
Sensitive 
Information (UPSI) and to prevent misuse of such 
information. The Bank is committed to transparency and 
fairness in dealing with all stakeholders and in ensuring 
adherence to all relevant laws and regulations.
	
Accordingly, the Bank’s Code ensures that the UPSI is 
not communicated except in furtherance of legitimate 
purposes, performance of duties or discharge of 
legal obligations. The Bank’s Code also ensures 
curbing of fraudulent and unfair practices relating to 
securities market.
	
The Bank under the Code maintains a Structured Digital 
Database (“SDD”) containing the nature of UPSI, names 
of such persons who have shared the UPSI along with 
names of such persons or entities, as the case may be, 
with whom UPSI is shared under this Code. Additionally, 
for the ease of convenience of the Designated 
Persons and as a part of Bank’s digitisation initiative, 
the reporting mechanism/ process which facilitates 
Designated Person in reporting of transactions in 
Securities of the Bank and seeking of pre-clearance for 
trading in securities other than YES BANK securities, was 
automated by the Bank, which can be accessed by the 
Designated Person through intranet. The system allows 
employees to submit online disclosures while dealing 
in the Securities of the Bank, i.e. submission of initial 
disclosures, obtaining of pre-clearances and submission 
of periodic declarations and to obtain pre-clearance 
for trading in any other securities. Thus, enabling the 
Compliance Officer in monitoring of transactions, for 
certain acts of omissions/ commissions on the part of 
the Designated Person and to take appropriate actions 
as per the SEBI PIT Regulations and Bank’s Code.
	
Further, based on the Board approved penalty matrix 
all identified violations are being reported to the 
Disciplinary Committee for its action(s) which may result 
into monetary implications depending on the instance 
and nature of violation.
	
Also, the Bank reports to the Stock Exchanges, 
violations by the Designated Persons as concluded by 
Disciplinary Committee of the Bank in the format as 
prescribed by SEBI.
	
The Bank from time to time creates awareness through 
Induction Programs, webinars, quiz, e-mails, mandatory 
declaration amongst the Designated Persons on the 
compliance and obligation requirements under the SEBI 
PIT Regulations read with the Bank’s Code.
(q)	
Dividend Distribution Policy:
	
In terms of the provisions of Regulation 43A of the 
SEBI LODR, the Board of Directors of the Bank has 
formulated and approved the Dividend Distribution 
Policy with the objective of providing clarity to its 
stakeholders on the profit distribution strategies of the 
Bank. The Policy is in line with the parameters prescribed 
thereunder for payment / distribution of dividend to the 
shareholders. The said Policy has been hosted on the 
Bank’s website under Corporate Governance Section 
and can be accessed at the link https://www.yesbank.in/
pdf?name=dividend_policy_pdf.pdf.
(r)	
Integrated Reporting:
	
SEBI had issued a Circular dated February 6, 2017 
on ‘Integrated Reporting by Listed Entities’ advising 
top 500 listed entities, which are required to prepare 
the Business Responsibility Report (amended to the 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) 
by SEBI in May 2021), to adopt Integrated Reporting 
(‘IR’) on a voluntary basis from the FY 2017-18 onwards. 
As of August 2022, the International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) Foundation has assumed responsibility 
for the Integrated Reporting Framework. In FY 2022-23, 
the Bank published its first fully Integrated Annual Report 
in accordance with the <IR> framework along with 
independent external assurance. YES BANK’s Integrated 
Annual Report for FY 2024-25 has been prepared in 
accordance with the <IR> Framework and is externally 
assured by BSI Group India Private Limited.
(s)	
Accounting Treatment:
	
The financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with requirements prescribed under the 
Third Schedule (Form A and Form B) of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949. The accounting and reporting 
policies of the Bank used in the preparation of these 
financial statements conform to Generally Accepted 
280
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Accounting Principles in India (Indian GAAP), the guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) from time to time, the 
accounting standards notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read together with Companies (Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2021 to the extent applicable and practices generally prevalent in the banking industry in India. The Bank 
follows the accrual method of accounting and the historical cost convention, unless otherwise stated by RBI guidelines.
(t) 	
Disclosure of certain types of agreements binding listed entities:
	
The Bank has not entered into any agreements as required to be disclosed under clause 5A of paragraph A of Part A of 
Schedule III of SEBI LODR.
6.	
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
(a)	
The details of Annual General Meeting(s) for the previous three financial years held and the Special Resolutions passed 
therein:
Meeting Type, Day, Date and time
Special Resolution
20th Annual General Meeting* - 
Friday, August 23, 2024 at 10:30 AM
1.	
To authorize capital raising through an issuance of debt instruments
2.	
To approve the YBL Restricted Stock Units Plan 2024
19th Annual General Meeting* - 
Friday, August 18, 2023 at 11:00 AM
1.	
To authorize capital raising through an issuance of debt instruments
2.	
To approve amendments to the Employees Stock Option Scheme of the Bank, namely YBL 
Employee Stock Option Scheme 2020
3.	
Approval for amendment to Articles of Association (“AOA / Articles”) of the Bank
18th Annual General Meeting* - 
Friday, July 15, 2022 at 10:30 AM
1.	
To authorise capital raising through an issuance of debt instruments
2.	
To approve amendments to the Employees Stock Option Scheme of the Bank, namely YBL 
Employee Stock Option Scheme 2020
3.	
To Appoint Mr. Atul Malik (DIN - 07872539) as an Independent Director
4.	
To Appoint Ms. Rekha Murthy (DIN - 07825183) as an Independent Director
5.	
To Appoint Mr. Sharad Sharma (DIN - 05160057) as an Independent Director
6.	
To appoint Ms. Nandita Gurjar (DIN - 01318683) as an Independent Director
7.	
To appoint Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani (DIN - 00072812) as an Independent Director
8.	
To appoint Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao (DIN - 01245772) as an Independent Director
(b)	
The details of Extra-ordinary General Meeting(s) for the previous three financial years held and the Special Resolutions 
passed therein:
Meeting Type, Day, Date and time
Special Resolution
Extra-ordinary General Meeting - Wednesday, 
August 22, 2022 at 11:00 AM
1.	
Approval for amendment to the Articles of Association of the Bank:
2.	
Issue of Investor Equity Shares and Investor Warrants, on a preferential basis
3.	
To appoint Mr. R. Gandhi (DIN - 03341633) as an Independent Director
	
*Pursuant to the provisions of Section 110 and Section 108 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (including any 
amendment(s), statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force) (hereinafter referred to as the “Act”), Rule 
22 and Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 (including any amendment(s), statutory modification(s) or 
re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force) (hereinafter referred to as the “Rules”) read with the General Circular No. 14/2020 dated 
April 8, 2020, General Circular No. 17 / 2020 dated April 13, 2020, in relation to extension of framework “Clarification on passing of ordinary 
and special resolutions by companies under the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder on account of the threat posed by 
Covid -19”and subsequent circulars issued in this regard, the latest being General Circular No. 09/2024 dated September 19, 2024, in 
relation to extension of the framework provided in the aforementioned circulars up to September 30, 2025 (“MCA Circulars”), issued by 
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India, Regulation 44 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”) read with Securities and Exchange Board of India (‘SEBI’) Circular 
No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2024/133 dated October 3, 2024 and relevant circulars thereof, the Company conducted the AGM 
through Video Conferencing /Other Audio Visual Means (“VC”/“OAVM”).
	
Further, in accordance with the Secretarial Standard-2 on General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India (“ICSI”) read with Clarification/Guidance on applicability of Secretarial Standards - 1 and 2 dated April 15, 2020 
issued by the ICSI, the proceedings of the AGM are deemed to be conducted at the Registered Office of the Bank being the 
deemed venue of the AGM.
281
281
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(c)	
Passing of Resolution through Postal Ballot:
	
During the Financial Year 2024-25, the Bank approached the Shareholders through Postal Ballot for passing of the 
following Resolution:
	
Resolution approved by Shareholders:
	
Date of Postal Ballot Notice: January 25, 2025
	
Voting Period: Thursday, January 30, 2025 at 10:00 A.M. to Friday, February 28, 2025 at 5:00 P.M.
	
Date of declaration of result: February 28, 2025
	
Date of Approval: February 28, 2025
	
The Board of Directors of the Bank had appointed Ms. Manisha Maheshwari, Partner of M/s. Bhandari & Associates, 
Company Secretaries, and failing her, Mr. S.N. Bhandari, Partner of M/s. Bhandari & Associates, Company Secretaries, as 
Scrutinizer to ensure that the Postal Ballot process is conducted in a fair and transparent manner.
Name of resolution
Type of 
resolution
No. of votes 
polled
Vote cast in favour
Vote cast in against
No. of votes
 %
No. of votes
%
To approve the appointment of Mr. Manish Jain (DIN 
– 10774800) as a Director
Ordinary 
Resolution
17,534,435,733
17,451,688,877
99.53
82,746,856
0.47
To approve the appointment and remuneration of 
Mr. Manish Jain (DIN – 10774800) as an Executive 
Director of the Bank
Ordinary 
Resolution
17,534,247,439
17,314,921,779
98.75
219,325,660
1.25
To approve the revised remuneration and variable 
pay of Mr. Prashant Kumar (DIN – 07562475), 
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Ordinary 
Resolution
17,534,147,539
17,413,919,859
99.31
120,227,680
0.69
To approve the remuneration, including variable pay 
of Dr. Rajan Pental (DIN – 08432870), Executive 
Director of the Bank
Ordinary 
Resolution
17,534,090,953
17,413,219,927
99.31
120,871,026
0.69
(d)	
Procedure for Postal Ballot:
	
Equity Shares:
	
In compliance with provisions of Sections 108 and 
110 of the Act, Rules 20 and 22 of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 read 
with General Circular No. 14/2020 dated April 8, 2020, 
General Circular No. 17 / 2020 dated April 13, 2020 
and other relevant circulars, in relation to extension of 
framework “Clarification on passing of ordinary and 
special resolutions by companies under the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder on account 
of the threat posed by Covid - 19”, and General 
Circular No. 09/2024 dated September 19, 2024, in 
relation to extension of the framework provided in the 
aforementioned circulars up to September 30, 2025 
(“MCA Circulars”), issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, Government of India, Secretarial Standard on 
General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (“SS-2”) and pursuant to such 
other applicable laws, the Bank provides e-voting 
facility to all its Shareholders to enable them to cast 
their votes electronically on the matters included in 
Postal Ballot Notice instead of dispatching the Postal 
Ballot Form by post.
	
The Bank had engaged the services of National Securities 
Depository Limited for the Postal Ballot conducted for 
the purpose of providing remote e-voting facility to 
the shareholders.
	
The Board of Directors of the Bank had appointed 
Scrutinizer for conducting the Postal Ballot process in a 
fair and transparent manner.
	
The Bank had sent Postal Ballot Notice by e-mail to all 
Shareholders whose names appeared on the Register of 
Shareholders/List of Beneficial Owners as received from 
Depositories i.e. National Securities Depository Limited 
(“NSDL”) / Central Depository Services (India) Limited 
(“CDSL”) as on Friday, January 24, 2025 and whose 
email ID was registered with the Bank or Depository/ 
Depository Participants and the communication of 
assent / dissent of the Shareholders was taken through 
the remote e-voting system.
	
The Bank had also published a notice in the newspaper 
declaring the details of completion of dispatch and 
other requirements as mandated under the aforesaid 
provisions of the Act and the said Rules.
282
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
	
The Resolution was passed upon receipt of the consent/
assent of requisite majority of Shareholders by means 
of Postal Ballot.
	
The Scrutiniser had submitted his report to the Chairman 
of the Meeting, after verification of the records and 
thereafter the e-voting results were declared.
	
Subsequently, the said results along with the report of the 
Scrutiniser were disclosed to BSE Limited and National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited within 2 working day 
of such declaration and uploaded on the website of the 
Bank. The resolutions, passed by requisite majority, were 
deemed to have been passed on the last date specified 
by the Bank for e-voting.
	
No Special Resolution(s) requiring a Postal Ballot 
is being proposed at the ensuing Annual General 
Meeting of the Bank.
(e)	
Means of Communication:
	
The Bank has provided adequate and timely information 
to its members inter-alia through the following means:
1)	
Quarterly Results are announced through a 
Press Conference and/or a Press Release sent to 
leading media publications as well as regulatory 
notice advertisement.
2)	
The Financial Results, Official News Releases 
and Presentations are also displayed on the 
website 
of 
the 
Bank 
at 
https://
www.yesbank.in/about-us/investor-relations/
financial-information/financial-results.
3)	
Financial Results are published in Financial Express 
and Navshakti Newspaper.
4)	
The presentations made to Institutional Investors 
and Financial Analysts on the Company’s Financial 
Results are displayed on the website of the 
Bank 
at 
https://www.yesbank.in/about-us/
investor-relations/financial-information/
financial-results. The Bank also informs the 
Schedule of meeting with the Institutional Investors 
and Financial Analysts to the Stock Exchanges. 
No unpublished price sensitive information is 
discussed in the presentation made to Institutional 
Investors and Financial Analysts.
5)	
The Financial and other information filed by 
the Bank from time to time is also available on 
the websites of the Stock Exchanges, i.e., BSE 
Limited (BSE) at www.bseindia.com and the 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) at 
www.nseindia.com.
6)	
The Bank has established systems and procedures 
to 
disseminate 
relevant 
information 
to 
its 
stakeholders, including shareholders, analysts, 
suppliers, customers, employees and the society 
at large. It also conducts earning calls with 
analysts and investors.
7)	
Documents like Notices of General Meetings, Annual 
Reports, Electronic Clearing System (ECS) advises 
for Dividends, etc. are sent to the shareholders 
at their e-mail address, as registered with their 
Depository Participants / Company / Registrar & 
Transfer Agents (RTA). This helps prompt delivery of 
document, reduce paper consumption, save trees 
and avoid loss of documents in transit.
8)	
SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES): The 
investor complaints are processed in a centralised 
web-based complaints redress system. The salient 
features of this system are centralised database 
of all complaints, online upload of Action Taken 
Reports (ATRs) by concerned companies and 
online viewing by investors of actions taken on the 
complaint and its current status.
	
9)	
Periodically reminders to the shareholders are sent 
for claiming unclaimed dividend.
(f)	
Changes in Equity Share Capital of the Bank:
	
As at March 31, 2025 the paid-up equity share capital of 
the Bank comprised of 31,354,115,322 (Three Thousand 
One Hundred And Thirty Five Crore Forty One Lakh Fifteen 
Thousand And Three Hundred Twenty Two) equity shares 
of ` 2/- each aggregating to ` 62,708,230,644/- (Rupees 
Six Thousand Two Hundred and Seventy Crore Eighty 
Two Lakh Thirty Thousand Six Hundred and Forty Four).
	
During the year under review, the Bank had allotted 
1,279,880,909 equity shares each to CA Basque 
Investments and Verventa Holdings Limited on April 21, 
2024 and May 05, 2024 respectively pursuant to the 
exercise of 1,279,880,909 convertible share warrants 
held by each of them and 26,471,398 equity shares 
pursuant to exercise of stock options by employees 
under YBL ESOS 2020 Scheme.
283
283
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
The table below gives details of equity evolution of the Bank during the year under review:
Sr. 
No.
Date of Allotment
Type of Issue
No. of Equity Shares 
Allotted
Face Value (in `)
Cumulative Equity Share 
Capital (No. of Shares)
1.
April 21, 2024
Conversion of Warrants
1,279,880,909
2.00
30,047,763,015
2.
April 23, 2024
ESOP
1,999,559
2.00
30,049,762,574
3.
May 5, 2024
Conversion of Warrants
1,279,880,909
2.00
31,329,643,483
4.
May 17, 2024
ESOP
2,880,092
2.00
31,332,523,575
5.
June 15, 2024
ESOP
3,138,137
2.00
31,335,661,712
6.
July 19, 2024
ESOP
3,683,368
2.00
31,339,345,080
7.
August 19, 2024
ESOP
4,684,901
2.00
31,344,029,981
8.
September 17, 2024
ESOP
2,855,279
2.00
31,346,885,260
9.
October 18, 2024
ESOP
1,514,397
2.00
31,348,399,657
10.
November 13, 2024
ESOP
1,486,408
2.00
31,349,886,065
11.
December 23, 2024
ESOP
971,484
2.00
31,350,857,549
12.
January 17, 2025
ESOP
2,011,762
2.00
31,352,869,311
13.
February 14, 2025
ESOP
869,328
2.00
31,353,738,639
14.
March 17, 2025
ESOP
376,683
2.00
31,354,115,322
(g)	
Dividend:
	
During FY 2024-25, the Board of Directors of the Bank 
has not recommended any dividend on equity shares.
(h)	
Transfer of Equity Shares to Investor Education and 
Protection Fund (IEPF) Authority:
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 124(6) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, 
Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”) 
mandate companies to transfer all shares in respect of 
which dividend has not been paid or claimed for seven 
consecutive years or more in the name of IEPF.
	
In accordance with the said IEPF Rules and its 
amendments, the Bank had sent notices to all the 
Shareholders whose shares were due for transfer 
to the IEPF Authority and simultaneously published 
newspaper advertisement.
	
In compliance with the aforesaid provisions, during the 
year 2024-25, the Bank transferred 64,021 (Sixty Four 
Thousand and Twenty One) Equity Shares of ` 2/- to the 
IEPF Authority corresponding to unclaimed dividend for 
the year 2016-17. The IEPF Authority holds 348,177 
Equity Shares in the Bank as on March 31, 2025.
	
In terms of Section 124(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Rule 7 of the IEPF Rules, the shareholders whose 
corresponding equity shares have been transferred to 
IEPF account can claim those shares from IEPF Authority 
by making an online application in Form IEPF-5 which is 
available at https://www.iepf.gov.in.
	
Guidelines to file your claim:
	
For claiming the shares and dividend from the IEPF 
Authority, shareholders can make an online web based 
application through MCA portal. Shareholders need to 
register themselves on MCA portal by creating Login 
ID credentials. After successful login into MCA portal, 
shareholders have to click on “MCA Services” tab and 
choose “IEPF-5” option under “Investor Services” and 
follow the due process for filing the form.
	
Printout of the duly filled Form IEPF-5 with claimant 
and joint holders’ (if any) signature and along with the 
acknowledgment issued after uploading the form will 
have to be submitted together with an indemnity bond 
in original, cancelled Cheque leaf of active bank account 
(details of which are mentioned by the claimant at the 
time of uploading the web-based form), and other 
documents as mentioned in Form IEPF-5 to the Nodal 
Officer (IEPF) of the Bank in an envelope marked “Claim 
for refund from IEPF Authority”.
	
Certain information about the Bank which will have to be 
submitted are as under:
	
a)	
Corporate Identification Number (CIN) of the Bank: 
L65190MH2003PLC143249
284
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
	
b)	
Name of the Bank: YES BANK Limited
	
c)	
Address of registered office of the Bank: YES BANK 
House, Off Western Express Highway, Santacruz 
(East), Mumbai- 400055
	
d)	
Email ID of the Bank: shareholders@yesbank.in
(i)	
Unclaimed Dividends:
	
In terms of the provisions of Section 124(5) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, 
Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”), the 
Bank is statutorily required to transfer to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (IEPF), all dividends 
remaining unclaimed for a period of seven (7) years from 
the date they became due for payment. Dividends for 
and up to the financial year ended March 31, 2017 have 
already been transferred to the IEPF and the dividend 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2018 will be 
transferred to the IEPF on or after July 12, 2025 within 
the timelines as specified in the IEPF Rules.
	
The details of Dividend transferred to IEPF during the year:
Financial 
year
Dividend 
declared on
Amount 
transferred to 
IEPF (in `)
Date of transfer 
to IEPF
2016-17
June 06, 2017
2,646,108
July 31, 2024
	
The following table provides dates on which unclaimed 
dividend and their corresponding shares would become 
liable to be transferred to the IEPF:
Dividend for the 
year ended
Date of Declaration of 
Dividend
Last date of 
claiming Dividend
March 31, 2018
June 12, 2018
July 11, 2025
March 31, 2019
June 12, 2019
July 11, 2026
	
Intimation to the Investors for claiming of Dividends:
	
During the year under review, the Bank has undertaken 
the following initiatives to reduce the quantum of unpaid/
unclaimed dividend:
	
-	
Annual voluntary reminders along with an 
additional reminder to the concerned shareholders 
to claim dividend; and
	
-	
Direct credit of unpaid/unclaimed dividend to 
those shareholders’ accounts, who have updated 
their bank account details with the Bank/
Depository Participant.
(j)	
Queries at Annual General Meeting:
	
Shareholders who wish to ask questions/express their 
views on the items of the businesses to be transacted 
at the meeting are requested to write to the Bank’s 
e-mail-id : AGM@yesbank.in with regard to the accounts 
at least 48 hours before the time fixed for the AGM 
mentioning their name, demat account number/folio 
number, email ID, mobile number etc. The queries may 
be raised precisely and in brief to enable the Bank to 
answer the same suitably depending on the availability 
of time at the AGM.
(k)	
Policies of the Bank:
	
As a part of good Corporate Governance, the Bank 
has from time to time adopted various policies/codes 
which are hosted on the website of the Bank at https://
www.yesbank.in/about-us/corporate-governance.
7.	
GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS INFORMATION:
	
The date, time and venue of the 21st Annual General 
Meeting of the Bank, is as under:
	
Date: August 21, 2025
	
Time: 10:30 A.M.
	
Venue: Through Video Conferencing (VC)/Other Audio 
Visual Means (OAVM).
(a)	
Financial Year:
	
The Financial Year of the Bank starts on April 1 and ends 
on March 31 of next year.
(b)	
Cut-off Date:
	
The Cut Off Date for determining shareholders who 
will be entitled to vote electronically on the resolutions 
mentioned in the Notice convening the Annual General 
Meeting by remote e-Voting and also vote on AGM date 
at the appointed time is mentioned in the AGM Notice.
(c)	
Dividend Payment Date:
	
The Board of Directors of the Bank has not 
recommended any Dividend for the FY 2024-25.
285
285
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(d)	
Listing on Stock Exchanges:
	
The Securities of the Bank are listed on following stock exchanges.
(Equity Shares)
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
Exchange Plaza, Plot no. C - 1, Block G,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E) 
Mumbai - 400 051.
(Equity Shares & Debt Securities)
BSE Limited
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street,
Mumbai - 400 001.
	
Notes:
	
1.	
Listing Fees for the FY 2024-25 has been paid to the above-mentioned Stock Exchanges.
	
2.	
The Securities of the Bank have not been suspended from trading on the said Stock Exchanges or by any Regulatory/ Statutory Authority.
(e)	
Registrar and Share Transfer Agents:
EQUITY
DEBT
KFIN Technologies Limited
Selenium Building, Tower B, Plot 31 & 32,
Financial District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally,
Hyderabad,
Telangana - 500032
Phone No: 040- 6716 2222
Fax No: 040-2300 1153
Contact Person: Ms. Shobha Anand /
Mr. Sridhar B
E-mail: einward.ris@kfin.com
MUFG Intime India Private Limited
(formally known as Link Intime India Private Limited)
C 101, 247 Park, L B S Marg,
Vikhroli West, Mumbai 400 083.
Tel No: +91 22 4918 6000
Fax: +91 22 4918 6060
Contact Person: Mr. Ganesh Jadhav
E-mail: mumbai@linkintime.co.in
(f)	
Share Transfer System:
	
The Board-level Stakeholders Relationship Committee examines and redresses investors’ grievances. The status of 
investors’ grievances and share transfers are reported to the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee.
	
As mandated by SEBI, securities of the Company can be transferred /traded only in dematerialised form. Further, SEBI vide 
its circular dated January 25, 2022, mandated that all service requests for issue of duplicate certificate, claim from unclaimed 
suspense account, renewal/ exchange of securities certificate, endorsement, subdivision/splitting/consolidation of certificate, 
transmission and transposition which were allowed in physical form should be processed in dematerialised form only.
	
Shareholders holding shares in physical form are advised to avail the facility of dematerialisation. Shareholders should 
communicate with KFIN Technologies Limited, the Company’s Registrars & Share Transfer Agent at einward.ris@kfintech.
com in quoting their folio number or Depository Participant ID and Client ID number, for any queries relating to their securities.
	
Updation of Permanent Account Number (PAN) and Bank Details:
	
Members may please note that SEBI vide its Circular No. SEBI/ HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 
2022 has mandated the Listed Companies to issue securities in demat form only while processing service requests viz. 
Issue of duplicate securities certificate, claim from Unclaimed Suspense Account; Renewal/ Exchange of securities certificate; 
Endorsement; Sub-division/ Splitting of securities certificate; Consolidation of securities certificates/folios; Transmission 
and Transposition. Accordingly, Shareholders are requested to make service requests by submitting a duly filled and 
signed Form ISR - 4, the format of which is available on the Company’s website under the link at https://www.yesbank.in/
pdf?name=normsforprocessinginvestorservice_pdf.pdf
	
Members holding equity shares of the Bank in physical form are requested to get their equity shares converted into demat/ 
electronic form to get inherent benefits of dematerialisation and also considering that physical transfer of equity shares/ 
issuance of equity shares in physical form have been disallowed by SEBI.
286
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
	
Nomination facility for shareholding
	
As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Companies Act, 2013 facility for making nomination is available for the members 
in respect of shares held by them. Members holding shares in physical form may obtain a nomination form (Form SH-13), 
from the Bank’s RTA or download the same from the Company’s website through the weblink at https://www.yesbank.in/
pdf?name=normsforprocessinginvestorservice_pdf.pdf.
	
Members holding shares in dematerialised form should contact their Depository Participants (DP) in this regard.
	
Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit:
	
In terms of Regulation 76 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018 
and SEBI Circular No. D&CC/FITTC/CIR-16/2002 dated December 31, 2002, as amended vide Circular No. CIR/MRD/
DP/30/2010 dated September 6, 2010 an audit is conducted on a quarterly basis by Company Secretary in practice, for the 
purpose of inter alia, reconciliation of the total admitted equity share capital with the depositories and in the physical form 
with the total issued/paid up equity share capital of YES BANK Limited. The certificates issued in this regard were placed 
before the Board Meeting and filed with National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited, where the equity shares 
of the Bank are listed.
(i)	
Distribution of Shareholding as at March 31, 2025:
Sr. No. Category (Shares)
No. of Holders
% To Holders
No. of Shares
Amount in `
% To Equity
1
1 - 5,000
6,356,421
95.45
2,813,579,967
5,627,159,934
8.97
2
5,001 - 10,000
150,983
2.27
1,119,046,862
2,238,093,724
3.57
3
10,001 - 20,000
82,389
1.24
1,178,910,433
2,357,820,866
3.76
4
20,001 - 30,000
26711
0.40
663,075,882
1,326,151,764
2.12
5
30,001 - 40,000
11,838
0.18
415,388,107
830,776,214
1.33
6
40,001 - 50,000
8,220
0.12
380,269,321
760,538,642
1.21
7
50,001 - 100,000
13,470
0.20
966,076,570
1,932,153,140
3.08
8
100,001 and above
9,336
0.14
23,817,768,180
47,635,536,360
75.96
TOTAL:
6,659,368
100.00
31,354,115,322
62,708,230,644
100.00
	
Shareholding Pattern as at March 31, 20251:
Sr. No. Category
 No. of Shares
% to total
 Share capital
I
Promoter and Promoter Group
0
0
II
Public
 31,354,115,322
100.00
II (A)
Financial Institutions/Banks
 10,570,574,426
33.71
(a)
State Bank of India
 7,516,666,000
23.97
(b)
HDFC Bank Limited
 861,972,784
2.75
(c)
ICICI Bank Limited
 750,059,900
2.39
(d)
Axis Bank Limited
 315,609,958
1.01
(e)
IDFC First Bank Limited
 -
-
(f)
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
 380,000,000
1.21
(g)
Other Financial Institutions/ Banks
 746,265,784
2.38
II (B)
Other institutions
 10,248,645,812
 33.00
(a)
Insurance Companies
 1,272,855,123
4.06
(i) LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA along with its sub- accounts
 1,248,365,988
3.98
(b)
Mutual Fund
 515,849,188
1.65
(c)
Alternate Investment Fund
 9,026,504
0.03
(d)
Foreign Portfolio Investor
 3,396,748,578
10.84
(e)
Foreign Direct Investment
 5,028,098,484
16.04
1GRI 2-1
287
287
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Sr. No. Category
 No. of Shares
% to total
 Share capital
(i) CA Basque Investments
 2,143,958,760
6.84
(ii) Verventa Holdings Limited
 2,884,139,724
9.20
(f)
NBFCs registered with RBI
 20,249,269
0.06
(g)
Sovereign Wealth Fund
 3,454,729
0.01
(h)
Provident Fund/Pension Funds
 2,323,643
0.01
(i)
Foreign Companies
 40,294
0
II (C)
Central Government / State Government
 600,468
0
Shareholding by Companies or Bodies Corporate where Central / State Government is 
a Promoter
 600,468
0
II (D)
Other Non-Institutions
 540,633,464
1.73
(a)
Bodies Corporate
 538,389,561
1.72
(b)
IEPF
 348,177
0
(c)
Trusts
 1,665,481
0.01
(d)
Clearing Member
 191,614
0
(e)
Others - Unclaimed Shares
 38,631
0
II (E)
Individuals
 9,993,661,152
31.87
(a)
Resident Individuals
 9,184,176,482
29.29
(b)
Non-resident Indians
 515,919,960
1.65
(d)
Foreign National
 47,569
0
(e)
Key Managerial Personnel
 909,500
0
(f)
Directors & their relatives
 287,807
0
(g)
HUF
 292,319,834
0.93
Total I + II
 31,354,115,322
 100.00
(j)	
Dematerialisation of shares and liquidity:
	
The Equity shares of the Bank are to be compulsorily 
traded on the floor of the stock exchanges in electronic 
form by all investors.
	
As at March 31, 2025, out of total paid-up equity share 
capital of the Bank, 99.999% is held in dematerialised 
form and 0.001% is held in physical form.
	
Shareholders are requested to convert their physical 
holdings into electronic holdings which will negate risks 
associated with physical certificates.
(k)	
Outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any Convertible 
instruments, conversion date and likely impact on 
equity:
	
The Bank does not have any Outstanding GDRs/
ADRs as on date.
	
The Bank has issued 2,559,761,818 Share Warrants 
convertible into equity shares of face value ` 2 each on a 
preferential basis on December 13, 2022.
	
The Board of Directors of the Bank has approved 
allotment of 1,279,880,909 equity shares each to CA 
Basque Investments and Verventa Holdings Limited 
on April 21, 2024 and May 05, 2024 respectively 
pursuant to the exercise of 1,279,880,909 convertible 
share warrants held by each of them.
	
The Bank does not have any Outstanding warrants or 
any convertible instruments as on date.
(l)	
Commodity Price Risk or Foreign Exchange Risk and 
Hedging activities:
	
The information on the Commodity Price Risk or Foreign 
Exchange Risk and Hedging activities is explained 
elsewhere in this report.
(m)	 Plant Locations:
	
Being a Banking Company, the Bank does not have plants. 
The Bank operates its business through a network of 
1,255 Branches; 235 Business Correspondence Banking 
Outlets located across India and 1,331 ATM’s and Bunch 
Note Acceptor/ Recycler. The details of the Branch 
Addresses are available on the website of the Bank.
288
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
(n)	
Address for Correspondence for investors:
	
Mr. Sanjay Abhyankar, Company Secretary
	
YES BANK House, Off Western Express Highway, 
Santacruz East, Mumbai - 400 055.
	
Tel: +91 (22) 5091 9800, +91 (22) 6507 9800,  
	
Fax : +91 (22) 2619 2866
	
Email: shareholders@yesbank.in
(o)	
Credit Ratings and Change/Revisions in Credit Ratings 
for Debt Instruments:
	
-	
CRISIL Rating upgraded the rating for Basel III Tier 
II Bonds and Infrastructure bonds to “CRISIL A+”, 
Moreover CRISIL reaffirmed Rating of “CRISIL A1+” 
towards Certificate of Deposits in August 2024 and 
the same was maintained as at March 31, 2025. 
The credit rating outlook was changed to “Stable” 
from “Positive”.
	
-	
India Ratings reaffirmed Long term Issuer rating 
to “IND A“, Bank’s Infrastructure Bonds to “IND A”, 
and Basel III Tier II Bonds to “IND A”, in August 2024 
and the same were maintained as at March 31, 
2025. The credit rating outlook was changed to 
“Positive” from “Stable”.
	
-	
ICRA upgraded the rating for Basel III Tier II 
Bonds and Infrastructure bonds at “ICRA A” 
in July 2024 and same were maintained as at 
March 31, 2025. The credit rating outlook was 
maintained at “Positive”.
	
	
Further in July 2025, ICRA upgraded the rating for 
Basel III Tier II Bonds and Infrastructure bonds to 
“ICRA AA-” The credit rating outlook was changed 
to “Stable" from “Positive”.
	
-	
CARE upgraded the ratings for Infrastructure 
Bonds and Basel III Tier II Bonds to “CARE A+” in 
September 2024 and the same were maintained 
as at March 31, 2025. Moreover, CARE re-affirmed 
Rating of “CARE A1+” to the Certificate of Deposits 
and the same was maintained as at March 31, 
2025. The credit rating outlook was changed to 
“Stable” from “Positive”.
	
	
Further, in July 2025, CARE upgraded the rating for 
Basel III Tier II Bonds and Infrastructure bonds at 
“CARE AA-” The credit rating outlook was changed 
to “Stable” from "Positive".
	
-	
Moody’s reaffirmed the Bank’s ratings to “Ba3” in 
July 2024 and same was maintained as at March 31, 
2025 and the credit rating outlook was changed to 
“Positive” from “Stable”.
	
	
Further in June 2025, Moody’s upgraded Bank’s 
ratings to “Ba2” and credit rating outlook was 
changed to “Stable” from “Positive”.
(p) 	 Debenture Trustee:
	
Axis Trustee Services Limited
 	
Address: The Ruby, 2nd Floor,
	
SW, 29 Senapati Bapat Marg,
	
Dadar (West), Mumbai - 400 028
	
Contact Person: Mr. Anil Grover,
	
Chief Operating Officer
	
Phone no: +91-22-62300451
	
Fax No: +91-22-62300700
	
Email: debenturetrustee@axistrustee.in
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
YES BANK Limited
Place: Mumbai
Date: July 19, 2025
Prashant Kumar
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN 07562475)
Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
Chairman
(DIN 03341633)
289
289
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CEO / CFO CERTIFICATION
We, Prashant Kumar, Managing Director & CEO and Niranjan Banodkar, Chief Financial Officer, of YES BANK Limited (the “Bank”) 
hereby certify that:
a.	
We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year ended March 31, 2025 of the Bank and 
that to the best of our knowledge and belief:
	
i.	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain any statements 
that might be misleading;
	
ii.	
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Bank’s affairs and are in compliance with existing 
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
b.	
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Bank during the year which are 
fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Bank’s Code of Conduct.
c.	
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we have evaluated 
the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Bank pertaining to financial reporting and have disclosed to the Auditors 
and Audit Committee of the Board, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, if any, of which we are 
aware and the steps we have taken or proposed to take to rectify these deficiencies.
d.	
We have indicated, to the Auditors and the Audit Committee:
	
i.	
significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
	
ii.	
significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have been disclosed in the notes to the 
financial statements; and
	
iii.	
instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management 
or an employee having significant role in the Bank’s internal control system over financial reporting.
Yours faithfully
For YES BANK LIMITED
For YES BANK LIMITED
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025
Prashant Kumar
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN: 07562475)
Niranjan Banodkar
Chief Financial Officer
COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS
I confirm that all the Directors and Members of the Senior Management have affirmed compliance with YES BANK’s Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics for the Board of Directors and Senior Management for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025.
For YES BANK Limited
Prashant Kumar
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN No.: 07562475)
Date: April 19, 2025
Place: Mumbai
290
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CERTIFICATE ON COMPLIANCE WITH THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
REQUIREMENTS UNDER SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE 
REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015
To,
The Members,
YES BANK LIMITED
YES BANK HOUSE,
Off Western Express Highway,
Santacruz East,
Mumbai - 400055
We, BNP & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries have examined all relevant records of YES Bank Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as “the Bank”) as provided for the purpose of certifying the compliance ensured by the Bank of the disclosure 
requirements and corporate governance norms as specified for Listed Companies, as prescribed under Regulations 17 to 27, 
clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 and Para C, D and E of Schedule V of Chapter IV of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘LODR’), for the financial year 
ended 31st March 2025. We have obtained all the information and explanations, which, to the best of our knowledge and belief 
were necessary for the purpose of this certification.
We state that completing compliance requirements of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management of the Bank, 
and our examination is limited to procedures and implementation thereof as adopted by the Bank for ensuring the compliance. 
It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Bank.
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we certify that the Bank has 
complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as specified for a listed entity in LODR for FY 2024-25.
We further state that the above certification is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Bank during the financial year.
For BNP & Associates
Company Secretaries
[Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400]
[PR No.: 6316/2024]
Kalidas Ramaswami
Partner
Date: June 03, 2025	 
FCS No.: F2440 COP No.: 22856
Place: Mumbai	 
UDIN: F002440G000531089
291
291
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS1
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10) (i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members,
YES BANK LIMITED
YES BANK HOUSE,
Off Western Express Highway,
Santacruz East,
Mumbai – 400055
We, BNP & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and 
disclosures received from the Directors of YES Bank Limited having CIN L65190MH2003PLC143249 and having its registered 
office at YES BANK HOUSE, Off Western Express Highway, Santacruz East, Mumbai – 400055 (hereinafter referred to as “the 
Bank”), which have been provided to us by the Bank for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 
34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications [including verification of Directors’ Identification 
Number (“DIN”) status] as per the portal of Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India (“MCA”) www.mca.gov.in as 
considered necessary and pursuant to explanations furnished to us by the Bank and its officers, we hereby certify that none of 
the Directors on the Board of the Bank as stated below, for the financial year ended on 31st March, 2025 have been debarred or 
disqualified from appointment or continuing as directors of the Bank by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs, or by any other statutory regulatory authority.
Sr. 
No
DIN
Name of the Directors
Designation
*Date of 
Appointment
1
03341633
Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
Non-Executive Part-time Chairperson, Independent Director
23/07/2022
2
07562475
Mr. Prashant Kumar
Executive Director, Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer 
(“MD&CEO”)
26/03/2020
3
08432870
Dr. Rajan Pental
#Executive Director
02/02/2023
4
07872539
Mr. Atul Malik
Independent Director
30/08/2021
5
07825183
Ms. Rekha Murthy
Independent Director
30/08/2021
6
05160057
Mr. Sharad Sharma
Independent Director
01/11/2021
7
09623300
Mr. Sandeep Tewari
Non-Executive Director (Nominee Director of State Bank of India)
15/07/2022
8
09623382
Mr. Thekepat Keshav Kumar
Non-Executive Director (Nominee Director of State Bank of India)
15/07/2022
9
01245772
Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao
Independent Director
15/07/2022
10
01318683
Ms. Nandita Gurjar
Independent Director
15/07/2022
11
00072812
Mr. Sanjay Kumar Khemani
Independent Director
15/07/2022
12
00291675
Ms. Shweta Jalan
Non-Executive Director (Nominee of Verventa Holdings Limited)
13/12/2022
13
10774800
Mr. Manish Jain
Executive Director
28/02/2025
*Dates of appointment of Directors are as they appear on the MCA Portal.
#As per the MCA records pertaining to the Bank, the designation of Dr. Rajan Pental (DIN: 08432870) - Whole -Time Director of the Bank is 
reflected as a director and not as Whole-Time Director. The Bank has accordingly filed the requisite forms relating to the appointment of the 
Whole Time Director with MCA. 
1GRI 2-9
292
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Ensuring the eligibility of every director for appointment / continuity on the Board is the responsibility of the Management of the 
Bank. We further state that this certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the Management of the Bank has conducted the affairs of the Bank.
Date: June 03, 2025
Place: Mumbai
For BNP & Associates
Company Secretaries
[Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400]
[PR No.: 6316/2024]
Kalidas Ramaswami
Partner
FCS No.: F2440 COP No.: 22856
UDIN: F002440G000530748
293
293
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I. 	
Details of the listed entity
Sr. No
Particulars
Answer
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L65190 MH 2003 PLC 143249
2
Name of the Listed Entity1
YES Bank Limited
3
Year of incorporation
2003
4
Registered office address1
YES BANK House, Off Western Express Highway, Santacruz East, 
Mumbai 400055, Maharashtra, India
5
Corporate address
YES BANK House, Off Western Express Highway, Santacruz East, 
Mumbai 400055, Maharashtra, India
6
E-mail
shareholders@yesbank.in
7
Telephone
+91 (22) 65079800
8
Website
www.yesbank.in
9
Financial year for which reporting is being done
2024-25
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited
11
Paid-up Capital
INR 62,70,82,30,644/- (Rupees Six Thousand Two Hundred and 
Seventy Crore Eighty Two Lakhs Thirty Thousand Six Hundred and 
Forty Four only)
12
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the 
person who may be contacted in case of any queries on the 
BRSR report
Niranjan Banodkar
Chief Financial Officer
Telephone number +91-22-65077941
e-mail id:  responsible.banking@yesbank.in
13
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report 
made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the entity) or on a 
consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities which 
form a part of its consolidated financial statements, taken 
together).
The disclosures under this report are made on a standalone basis
14
Name of assurance provider
BSI Group India Private Limited
15
Type of assurance obtained
•	
Reasonable Assurance for BRSR Core Disclosures (For 
independent assurance statement please refer to page 493)
•	
Limited Assurance for select non-core BRSR Disclosures (For 
independent assurance statement please refer to page 502)
II. 	
Products/services
16. 	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
Sr. No
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of the entity
1
Financial and Insurance Service
Banking activities by Central, Commercial and Saving banks
100%
17. 	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover)1:
Sr. No
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover of contributed
1
Monetary intermediation of commercial banks, saving banks, 
postal savings bank and discount houses
64191
100%
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Report
1GRI 2-1, GRI 2-6
294
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
III. 	 Operations
18. 	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated1:
Location
Number of Plants
Number of Offices
Total
National
- 1,255 branches
- 32 offices
- The Bank's IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) in Gujarat International 
Finance Tec-City (GIFT), which is considered an overseas 
branch according to the Foreign Exchange Management Act
1,288
International
1 Representative Office in Abu Dhabi
1
19.	 Markets served by the entity:
a. 	
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
28 States and 7 Union Territories of India*
International (No. of Countries)
The Bank serves 91 countries through its IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) in Gujarat International Finance Tec-
City (GIFT) and Representative Office in Abu Dhabi
*The Bank operates 1,255 Branches; 32 offices; 235 Business Correspondent Banking Outlets (BCBOs); 1,331 Automated Teller Machines & Bulk 
Note Acceptors (ATMs, CRMs & BNAs), across India
b. 	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
The total exports undertaken by the Bank during FY 2024-25 and classified as ‘export of service’, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Law, stands at INR 213,50,62,518 (as reported in the Bank’s GST returns), 
representing 0.58% of the Bank’s total turnover for FY 2024-25.    
c. 	
A brief on types of customers
	
As a full-service commercial Bank, YES BANK offers a comprehensive bouquet of products, services and technology-driven 
digital solutions, that cater to the banking needs of the corporate, retail, SME and rural segments. The Bank’s customers 
include large corporates, small and medium enterprises, individuals, women microfinance borrowers, amongst many others. 
For more information on the Bank’s customers, products and services, please refer to the “Products & Services” section on 
page 28 of the Bank’s Integrated Annual Report for FY 2024-25.
IV. 	 Employees
20. 	 Details as at the end of Financial Year:
a. 	
Employees and workers (including differently abled)1:
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
Employees
1
Permanent (D)
28,690
22,043
76.8%
6,647
23.2%
2
Other than Permanent (E)*
35
21
60.0%
14
40.0%
3
Total employees (D + E)
28,725
22,064
76.8%
6,661
23.2%
Workers
4
Permanent (F)
Not applicable
5
Other than Permanent (G)
6
Total workers (F + G)
*All trainees, advisors and consultants are classified as “Other than Permanent” employees
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For Independent 
Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
1GRI 2-7, GRI 2-8
295
295
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
b. 	
Differently abled Employees and workers:   
S. 
No. 
Particulars 
Total (A) 
Male
Female
No. (B) 
% (B / A) 
No. (C) 
% (C / A) 
Differently abled Employees
1
Permanent (D) 
37
32
86%
5
14%
2
Other than Permanent (E) 
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
3
Total differently abled employees  (D + E) 
37
32
86%
5
14%
Differently abled Workers
4
Permanent (F) 
Not applicable
5
Other than Permanent (G) 
6
Total differently abled employees  (F + G) 
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For Independent 
Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
21. 	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
Total (A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors
13
3
23.08%
Key Management Personnel
5
0
0%
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For Independent 
Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers (Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
FY 2024-25
(Turnover rate in current FY)
FY 2023-24
(Turnover rate in previous FY)
FY 2022-23
(Turnover rate in the year 
prior to the previous FY)
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Voluntary Exits
Permanent Employees
34.7%
37.9%
35.5%
37.5%
40.6%
38.2%
42.6%
42.8%
42.7%
Permanent Workers
Not Applicable
Involuntary Exits*
Permanent Employees
4.2%
2.6%
3.8%
2.6%
2.0%
2.5%
1.3%
1.0%
1.2%
Permanent Workers
Not Applicable
Note: Attrition has been computed basis average headcount as at the close of the Financial Year
*Exits Due to dismissal, termination, retirement or death in service
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For Independent 
Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
V. 	
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
23. 	 Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
Sr. 
No
Name of the holding / subsidiary 
/ associate companies / joint 
ventures (A)
Indicate whether holding/ 
Subsidiary/ Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares 
held by listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated at column A, participate 
in the Business Responsibility initiatives of the 
listed entity? (Yes/No)
1
Yes Securities (India) Limited
Subsidiary
99.28 %
No
296
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
VI. 	 CSR Details
24.
Sr. No
Question
Answer
(i)
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No)
 YES
(ii)
Turnover (in `)
367,517,730,547
(iii)
Net worth (in `)
477,800,538,229
VII. 	 Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
25.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business 
Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No) (If Yes, then provide 
web-link for grievance redress policy)
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities
Yes.
Members of the community can report 
their grievance, if any, to the Branch 
Manager of the nearest YES BANK 
Branch or the Infrastructure and Facilities 
Management (IFM) team at the nearest 
YES BANK office. Community grievances 
are registered and resolved through the 
Bank’s internal helpdesk system.
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Yes.
Weblink: 
https://www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=-
contactdetailsforstakeholdersgrievanc-
esredressal_pdf.pdf
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Shareholders
Yes.
Weblink:
https://www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=-
contactdetailsforstakeholdersgrievanc-
esredressal_pdf.pdf
27
Nil
-
29
Nil
-
Employees 
and workers
Yes.
The policy on Employee Grievance 
Redressal is available to all employees on 
the Bank’s Intranet
66
04
All pending 
complaints 
are 
reviewed 
and 
resolved 
within TAT
132
02
All the 
pending 
complaints 
were 
reviewed 
and 
resolved 
within TAT
Customers
Yes.
Weblink:
h t t p s : / / w w w . y e s b a n k . i n / p d -
f?name=grievanceredressal_policy_en-
glish.pdf
2,01,318
9,126
NA
56,452
1.503
NA
Value Chain 
Partners
Yes.
Weblink:
https://www.yesbank.in/strategic-
procurement-unit
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
297
297
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No) (If Yes, then provide 
web-link for grievance redress policy)
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Whistle 
Blowers
Yes.
Weblink:
https://www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=ybl_
whistleblower_policy_v4.5.pdf
40
9*
NA
38
18*
NA
*Includes cases under investigation and cases in which investigation is completed, however a decision from Whistle Blower Committee 
(WBC) is pending
26. 	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters 
that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk 
along-with its financial implications, as per the following format:
Sr. 
No
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / 
opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
1
Governance 
and 
Compliance
Opportunity Impacts on Stakeholders
•	 Enables efficient functioning & value 
creation for stakeholders, leading 
to 
overall 
social 
and 
economic 
development
•	 Prudent 
governance 
and 
risk 
management 
practices, 
enhance 
economic stability and reduce risks 
and impacts of economic crises
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
•	 Transparency 
boosts 
stakeholder, 
including investor confidence, which 
helps in  reducing cost of capital and 
enhances communication amongst 
the Bank’s stakeholders
•	 Helps safeguard against risks and 
improve enterprise value
•	 Improves 
decision-making 
and 
efficiency, strengthens reputation and 
brand image, and helps attract talent 
and retain employees
•	 Good compliance culture reduces risks 
of fines, penalties and litigation
•	 Bank has a diverse, professional Board 
with 54% Independent Directors
•	 11 
Board-level 
Committees 
which 
assist the Board in discharging its 
responsibilities
•	 Nomination & Remuneration Committee, 
with a majority of independent directors, 
recommends appointment of Directors & 
reviews Board’s performance evaluation 
framework
•	 Bank has implemented a comprehensive 
Enterprise Risk Governance framework 
with 3-Lines of Defense comprising 
business 
management, 
independent 
functions, and internal audit
•	 Bank’s Compliance Department ensures 
compliance to regulatory requirements, 
with 
the 
Chief 
Compliance 
Officer 
reporting directly to the Audit Committee 
of the Board and the Bank monitoring 
Compliance Risk as a standalone risk
•	 Employees receive regular trainings on 
regulatory compliances
Positive
298
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Sr. 
No
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / 
opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
2
Business 
Ethics
Risk
Impacts on Stakeholders
•	 Bribery, corruption and restrictive/
unfair trade practices impede efficient 
functioning of economic systems, 
leading 
to 
negative 
customer 
experience
•	 Practices 
like 
money 
laundering 
proliferate crime, increase corruption, 
& shift economic power towards 
antisocial elements
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
•	 Unethical business practices have 
negative impact on reputation and 
credibility, and impede ability to raise 
capital, affect capacity to attract 
customers and employees
•	 Unethical practices lead to risk of 
fines, penalties and litigation
•	 The Bank has instituted a Code of 
Conduct and key policies related to anti-
bribery and anti-corruption, anti-money 
laundering, whistle blower mechanism 
amongst others to foster and promote 
ethical and responsible business conduct
•	 In order to address misconduct and any 
non-adherence to the Bank's Code of 
Conduct and all relevant statutory and 
regulatory stipulations, as applicable, 
the Bank has put in place appropriate 
measures within compensation structure 
itself
•	 Bank’s 
employees 
are 
provided 
mandatory trainings on the Code of 
Conduct, ABAC Policy, KYC and AML 
Policy as part of induction training and 
refresher certifications on a regular basis
•	 The Bank is a signatory to the UN Global 
Compact, and has instituted an ESG Code 
of Conduct for its suppliers, based on the 
10 principles of the UNGC, taking steps to 
assess and enhance the ESG awareness 
and preparedness of its supplier base
Negative
3
Data 
Security & 
Privacy
Risk
Impacts on Stakeholders
•	 Data 
security 
incidents 
risk 
of 
disruption of critical services
•	 Poor 
data 
security 
and 
privacy 
protection leads to loss of customer’s 
personal information risking identity 
theft/fraud
•	 Data security events/incidents cause 
customers to lose confidence in digital 
channels/banking system as a whole
•	 Robust 
data 
systems 
encourage 
the use of digital channels, enhance 
financial inclusion & contribute to 
goals of Digital India
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
•	 Robust systems build reputation of 
reliability and integrity
•	 Leak of sensitive internal data or 
customer 
information 
leads 
to 
operational and reputational risk
•	 Failure to follow data privacy laws 
leads to fines or lawsuits
•	 The Bank has a well-defined governance 
structure 
for 
information 
security 
and data protection, with Board-level 
oversight from the Risk Management 
Committee and the IT Strategy
	
Committee 
and 
management-level 
oversight from the Security Council and 
the Fraud & Suspicious Transaction 
Monitoring Committee
•	 The Bank has instituted Board-approved 
policies for Data Handling, Information 
Security and Cyber Security
•	 The Bank has implemented an ISO 
27001:2022 
certified 
information 
security management system
•	 The Bank regularly conducts trainings, 
awareness campaigns and simulated 
drills for employees, vendors, customers, 
and other stakeholders on global cyber 
security threats, and issues guidance 
on using digital platforms in a safe and 
secure manner
Negative
299
299
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Sr. 
No
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / 
opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
4
Digital 
Innovation
Opportunity Impacts on Stakeholders
•	 Digitizing 
paper-based 
processes 
reduces use of paper & waste
•	 Digital channels enable customers 
to access banking services at the 
convenience of their home and at a 
click of a button
•	 Digital platforms deepen reach & 
access of financial services amongst 
unbanked, hard to reach, & vulnerable 
communities
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
•	 Efficient digital banking solutions 
enhance customer satisfaction, loyalty 
and retention
•	 Continued investments in technology 
and digital infrastructure strengthens 
market share in digital payments
•	 The Bank has well-defined policies and 
frameworks for its digital products & 
services, with oversight from two Board-
level committees
•	 The Bank has enabled omni-channel 
customer 
engagement, 
seamless 
payment solutions & assisted digital 
model for mass-market products through 
its Digital Product Suite and continues 
to advance its new-age digital product 
offerings
•	 Leveraging its leadership in API banking, 
the Bank has developed key partnerships 
within the digital ecosystem to foster 
innovation and strengthen its connected 
banking propositions 
•	 To be at the forefront of digital 
innovation, the Bank actively engages on 
various Central Government’s initiatives 
on Digital Public Infrastructure to refine 
its client offerings and contribute to the 
growth of the digital franchise
Positive
5
Customer 
Relations
Opportunity Impacts on Stakeholders
•	 Good customer relations enhance 
customer satisfaction and delight
•	 Encourages 
responsible 
selling 
practices across ecosystems
•	 Enhances financial literacy, facilitates 
the uptake of credit, and increases 
access to financial services
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
•	 Leads to enhanced customer loyalty 
and retention
•	 Increases promoter scores amongst 
customers 
and 
improves 
brand 
advocacy
•	 Increases opportunities for upselling 
and cross-selling
•	 Poor customer relations may lead to 
customer attrition and a damage to 
reputation
•	 Unethical 
selling/wrong 
product 
information 
may 
lead 
to 
fines, 
penalties, trading restrictions and 
other regulatory actions
•	 The Bank has set up a comprehensive 
governance structure for overseeing its 
performance on customer service with 
oversight by the executive-level Standing 
Committee on Customer Service and 
the Customer Service Committee of the 
Board
•	 The Bank has instituted robust policies 
on collection of dues and repossession 
of security, and customer grievance 
redressal
•	 Through its Code of Conduct and other 
policies, the Bank promotes responsible 
selling practices. All of the Bank’s 
collection and repo agencies and their 
executives must undergo mandatory 
trainings on the CoC
•	 YES BANK continues to invest in 
technologies such as AI in enhancing 
customer service though offerings like 
YES Robot and YES Genie
Positive
300
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Sr. 
No
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / 
opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
•	 Valuing the views and feedback of its 
customers, the Bank captures the Voice 
of the Customer (VOC) and Customer 
Scoring 
through 
transaction 
and 
engagement feedback. The Bank has 
measured customer satisfaction across 
touchpoints through the VOC survey and 
institutionalised Net Promoter Score 
(NPS) as a key metric to drive superior 
service experience, customer loyalty and 
advocacy, across its various channels
•	 Performance on customer service is also 
integrated into employee performance 
appraisal, which in turn is linked with 
employee 
remuneration. 
Relevant 
employees are provided regular training 
on customer service
•	 The Bank has instituted a comprehensive 
3-Level Grievance Redressal Mechanism 
for addressing customer queries and 
complaints
6
Employment 
Practice
Opportunity Impacts on Stakeholders
•	 Good employment practices create 
new employment opportunities in the 
economy
•	 Enhances individual skills, knowledge 
and employability
•	 Ensures good health & wellbeing of 
individuals & their families
•	 Reduces marginalization of vulnerable 
groups, such as women, minorities, & 
migrants through inclusivity & non-
discrimination
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
•	 Boosts employee morale, satisfaction 
and loyalty towards the organization
•	 Strengthens ability to attract new 
talent and retain employees
•	 Improves employee participation and 
engagement in their jobs leading to 
better productivity and performance
•	 Committed employees help contribute 
positively to performance by being 
vigilant of risks and opportunities, and 
infusing innovation & ownership, in 
line with organisation goals
•	 The Bank's code of conduct and other 
policies are aimed at fostering a culture of 
equal opportunity, diversity and inclusion, 
gender equality, and to prevent all types 
of harassment and discrimination
•	 The Bank offers its employees tailored 
training programmes covering technical 
skills, industry knowledge, and essential 
soft skills
•	 The Bank has a robust and transparent 
performance 
review 
process 
which 
includes self-assessment, assessments 
by reporting authority and reviewer, and 
a Committee Review
•	 The Bank undertakes various initiatives 
to 
nurture 
physical, 
mental, 
and 
emotional well-being of employees, 
and has also implemented an ISO 
45001:2018 Occupational Health and 
Safety Management System (OHSMS)
•	 The Bank has a dedicated ‘Employee 
Service Desk’ to support and redress 
employee queries and grievances
Positive
301
301
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Sr. 
No
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / 
opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
7
Progress on 
Profitability
Opportunity Impacts on Stakeholders
•	 Higher 
profitability 
results 
in 
maximizing shareholder returns
•	 Aids 
in 
significantly 
improving 
perception 
among 
stakeholders 
including customers, credit rating 
agencies, vendors and suppliers etc
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
•	 Profitable franchise provides adequate 
cushion to capital position and balance 
sheet from external/ internal shocks
•	 Generating efficiencies from cost 
optimization can create headroom for 
suitable investments
•	 Absence of an efficient cost-structure 
may result in unwanted cost growth 
and sub-optimal profitability
•	 The Bank continues to strengthening 
its strategic investments in the priority 
sector lending arena by increasing the 
proportion of its PSL compliant book & 
accessing new geographies & capabilities
•	 The Bank continues to optimise its 
product and sourcing mix to improve its 
RoA and reduce its cost of acquisition, 
while retaining the overall product risk 
profile
•	 With its expertise in the SME and Mid 
Corporate segments, the Bank remains 
committed 
to 
offering 
outstanding 
service focused & tech-driven solutions 
to cater to evolving customer needs
•	 The Bank continues to augment the 
penetration of its product offerings in 
its growing network of branches, to 
reduce its cost of acquisition and improve 
profitability
•	 The Bank leverages its technology 
infrastructure 
and 
multi-pronged 
delivery channels to enhance scale and 
drive efficiency & profitability across its 
business verticals
Positive
8
Climate 
Action
Risk
Impacts on Stakeholders
•	 Operations and financed projects 
generate carbon emissions, which, 
if unmitigated or unchecked may 
contribute 
to 
increasing 
global 
warming
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
•	 Increase 
in 
the 
frequency 
and 
severity of extreme weather and 
climatic events affects infrastructure, 
employees and client performance 
and therefore revenues and costs
•	 Stricter 
environmental/climatic 
regulations and policy changes may 
impact operations/strategy
•	 Climate risk factors may increase 
market and operational risks, due 
to factors like fluctuations in energy 
commodity prices due to the transition 
on carbon-intensive industries
•	 Higher insurance risk premiums on 
owned assets vulnerable to climate 
change
•	 The Bank has instituted a robust climate 
governance structure, with oversight 
from two Board-level committees – CSR 
& ESG Committee and Risk Management 
Committee
•	 The Bank has included climate-related 
KPIs into the goal sheets of the MD&CEO 
and relevant executive management, 
including the CFO
•	 Climate risk is integrated into multi-
disciplinary 
company-wide 
risk 
management processes and as a material 
Pillar II risk in its Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Process (ICAAP)
•	 The Bank has taken steps to institute 
systems and processes for managing 
climate-related risks at the organizational, 
project and portfolio levels in line with its 
climate commitments and requirements 
of frameworks such as the Taskforce 
for Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) recommendations
Negative
302
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Sr. 
No
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / 
opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
•	 The Bank has measured and reported 
financed emissions and undertaken a 
target to reduce the financed emission 
intensity of its electricity generation 
sector portfolio
9
Climate 
Action
Opportunity Impacts on Stakeholders
•	 Financing and investment towards 
climate-aligned 
activities 
can 
contribute to emission reduction and 
avoidance
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
•	 Capitalizing on emerging climate and 
transition 
financing 
opportunities 
pertaining to India’s net zero by 2070 
target, including facilitating finance 
towards transitioning hard-to-abate 
sectors, 
supporting 
low-carbon 
technologies, and building climate 
adaptation and resilience, offers the 
Bank significant opportunities for 
revenue growth
•	 The Bank continues to mobilize finance 
towards climate-aligned sectors such as 
renewable energy and electric vehicles 
through targeted financial mechanisms 
and products such as green bonds and 
YES Kiran (rooftop solar loans dedicated 
to SMEs)
•	 The Bank has established a Green Deposit 
Policy and Financing Framework aimed at 
channelizing finance towards climate-
aligned sectors
Positive
10
Financial 
Inclusion
Opportunity Impacts on Stakeholders
•	 Reduces income inequality and boost 
economic output
•	 Prevents 
vulnerable 
communities 
from falling prey to unregulated 
money lenders and over indebtedness
•	 Helps accelerate gender equality and 
women’s economic empowerment
•	 Priority sector lending channelizes 
social 
finance 
towards 
economic 
sectors that contribute to national 
priorities
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
•	 Enhancing social finance towards 
national priority areas contributes to 
India’s SDGs, creates positive impact 
and build transformative relationships 
with key stakeholders
•	 Failure to comply with priority sector 
lending requirements results in risk of 
regulatory action
•	 The Bank has established a large network 
of Business Correspondent Banking 
Outlets to provide asset and liability 
solutions to customers in the rural 
segment
•	 The 
Bank 
promotes 
government 
schemes such as PMJDY and KCC; 
offers women borrowers microfinance 
loans through YES LEAP, caters to the 
financial needs of farmers through crop 
and farm mechanisation loans; meets 
the remittance need of migrants, under-
banked populations through its digital 
YES Money platform
•	 Thorough its social development arm 
YES Foundation, the Bank catalyzes 
employment 
and 
entrepreneurship 
opportunities for underprivileged youth 
and farmers
Positive
303
303
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Sr. 
No
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / 
opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
11
Operational 
eco-
efficiency
Risk
Impacts on Stakeholders
•	 Energy 
consumption 
from 
non-
renewable energy sources contributes 
to CO₂ emissions, causing of global 
warming
•	 Improper 
disposal/recycling 
of 
e-waste leads to pollution of natural 
ecosystems
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
•	 Failure to comply with applicable 
environmental 
laws 
/regulations 
results in a risk of fines, lawsuits, and 
reputation loss
•	 Emerging regulations and stakeholder 
expectations 
makes 
operations 
vulnerable 
to 
climate-related 
transition risks
•	 Unaddressed climate change makes 
operations & facilities prone to 
extreme weather events & climate-
related physical risks
•	 The Bank has instituted a comprehensive 
ISO 14001:2015 certified Environmental 
Management System (EMS) with highest 
coverage (1,186 facilities), in banking 
sector, globally
•	 In line with its target to achieve net zero 
by 2030 (scope 1 and scope 2), the Bank 
has migrated key facilities including its 
head office to renewable energy
•	 The 
Bank 
has 
appointed 
central 
authorized 
vendors 
for 
collection, 
recycling and responsible disposal of 
its e-waste, battery waste and other 
hazardous waste from all its facilities
Negative
12
Sustainable 
Finance
Opportunity Impacts on Stakeholders
•	 Enables the Bank to support SDGs, 
contribute to India’s net zero ambition, 
and 
minimize 
negative 
socio-
environmental impacts
•	 Provides 
an 
opportunity 
to 
the 
banking sector to work with clients 
across industries to drive low carbon 
transition
Impacts on Enterprise Value Creation
•	 Improves ESG ratings, & attracts ESG 
focused investors & capital
•	 Improves 
reputation 
amongst 
sustainability focussed customers, 
builds 
a 
competitive 
advantage 
to unlock opportunities in sunrise 
sectors, and strengthen relationship 
with ESG-aligned stakeholder groups
•	 Mitigates exposure to ESG-related 
risks and allows capitalizing on 
emerging opportunities
•	 The Bank has adopted an Environment 
and Social Policy (ESP) based on 
international frameworks such as IFC 
Performance Standards, which serves 
as a structured approach towards 
responsible lending. The Bank has 
instituted an Environment and Social Risk 
Management System (ESRMS) to assess 
and mitigate E&S risks of its financing 
activities
•	 The Bank issued India’s first green bond 
for channelizing finance towards India’s 
renewable energy sector
•	 In the line with the new extant guidelines 
issued by RBI on its Framework for 
acceptance of Green Deposits, the Bank 
has put in place a Board approved Green 
Deposit Policy and Financing Framework 
and is in the process of rolling out its 
Green Deposit programme
•	 The 
Bank 
continues 
to 
channelize 
financing to climate aligned sectors such 
as renewable energy and electric vehicles 
and other socially critical sectors such as 
SMEs and affordable housing
Positive
304
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
S.  
No
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
1. a
Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each principle and its core 
elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
N
Y
Y
1.b
Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
NA
Y
Y
1.c
Web Link of the Policies, if available
Y1
Y2
Y3
Y4
Y5
Y2
NA
Y4
Y6
2.
Whether the entity has translated the policy into procedures. (Yes / No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
NA
Y
Y
3.
Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partners? (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
NA
Y
Y
4.
Name of the national and international codes/certifications/labels/ 
standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest 
Alliance, Trustea) standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by 
your entity and mapped to each principle.
Y1
Y2
Y3
Y4
Y5
Y2
NA
Y4
Y6
5.
Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity with defined 
timelines, if any.
N
Y2
N
Y4
N
Y2
NA
Y4
N
6.
Performance of the entity against the specific commitments, goals and 
targets along-with reasons in case the same are not met.
NA
Y2
NA
Y4
NA
Y2
NA
Y4
NA
Governance, leadership and oversight
7.
Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets and achievements 
(listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)
For statement of director responsible for Business Responsibility report, refer to the Message from MD & CEO in the Integrated Annual 
Report on Page 12
8.
Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and 
oversight of the Business Responsibility policy (ies).
The Corporate Social Responsibility & Environmental, Social and 
Governance Committee of the Board (CSR & ESG Committee)
9.
Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision making on sustainability related issues? (Yes / 
No). If yes, provide details.
Yes. The Bank has a CSR & ESG Committee of the Board 
that provides oversight on sustainability related issues The 
composition of the Committee is given below:
•	
Ms. Rekha Murthy (Chairperson), Independent Director 
(DIN: 07825183)
•	
Ms. Nandita Gurjar (Member), Independent Director (DIN: 
01318683)
•	
Ms. Shweta Jalan (Member), Non-Executive Director; 
Nominee of Verventa Holdings Limited (DIN: 00291675)
•	
Mr. Sadashiv Srinivas Rao (Member), Independent Director 
(DIN: 01245772)
•	
Dr. Rajan Pental (Member), Executive Director (DIN: 
08432870)
•	
Mr. Manish Jain (Member), Executive Director (DIN: 
10774800)
10.
Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for review
Indicate whether review was undertaken by 
Director / Committee of the Board/ Any other 
Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ 
Any other – please specify)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Performance against above 
policies and follow up action
Y1
Y2
Y3
Y4
Y5
Y2
NA
Y4
Y6
A*
H
A#
H
A#
H
NA
H
H
Compliance with statutory 
requirements of relevance to the 
principles, and, rectification of 
any non-compliances
Y1
Y2
Y3
Y4
Y
Y2
NA
Y4
Y6
A*
H
A#
H
A#
H
NA
H
H
305
305
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11.
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Has the entity carried out 
independent assessment/ 
evaluation of the working of its 
policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/No). If yes, provide name of 
the agency.
N
Y2
Y3
N
N
Y2
NA
N
Y6
Y (Yes); N (No); NA (Not Applicable); A* (Annually); A#*As required); H (Half Yearly)
1.	
In order to ensure that its employees carry out the Bank’s business in line with the highest ethical standards, the Bank has instituted a 
Code of Conduct which can be accessed here. The Bank’s Code of Conduct is formulated in line with applicable regulatory requirements by 
various regulators (such as the Reserve Bank of India) and industry best practices. The Bank’s performance against its Code of Conduct 
and its compliance with statutory requirements are reviewed by Board level Committees as and when necessary. The Bank also has an 
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy which can be accessed here. The Bank’s Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy is formulated in 
line with applicable regulatory requirements by various regulators (such as the Reserve Bank of India) and industry best practices. The Audit 
Committee of the Board annually reviews the Bank’s performance against its Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy and its compliance 
with statutory requirements.
2. 	
The Bank has adopted an Environment & Social Policy (ESP) based on the Equator Principles and IFC Performance Standards and can 
be accessed here. The Bank’s performance against its ESP and its compliance with statutory requirements are reviewed by the Risk 
Management Committee of the Board on an annual basis and the CSR & ESG Committee of the Board on a half-yearly basis. The Bank has 
also instituted an Environmental Management Policy (EMP) based on the requirements of the ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management 
System Standard and can be accessed here. The Bank’s performance against its EMP and its compliance with statutory requirements 
are reviewed by the CSR & ESG Committee of the Board on a half-yearly basis. The EMP specifies the Bank’s target to achieve net zero 
emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) by 2030. In FY 2024-25, the Bank reduced its scope 1 and scope 2 emissions by 16.87% from the previous 
year and increased the share of renewable energy in its electricity mix from 12.31% in the previous year to 20.21% in FY 2024-25. To read 
about the Bank’s progress towards achieving net zero emissions by 2030, please refer to the “Operational Eco-efficiency” section on page 
110 of the Bank’s Integrated Annual Report for FY 2024-25. The implementation of the Bank’s EMP is independently audited annually for 
its adherence to the ISO 14001:2015 EMS Standard. In FY 2024-25, the Bank was certified ISO 14001 compliant for the 12th year in a row 
by BSI Group India Private Ltd.
3. 	
The Bank has formulated an Equal Opportunity Policy in line with applicable regulatory requirements which can be accessed here. The Bank’s 
performance against its Equal Opportunity Policy and its compliance with statutory requirements are reviewed by Board level Committees 
as and when necessary. The Bank has also adopted an Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Policy in line with the requirements of ISO 
45001 standard for Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems, which can be accessed here. The Bank’s OHS practices are 
independently audited annually for their adherence to the ISO 45001 standard for OHS management system. In FY 2024-25, the Bank was 
certified ISO 45001 compliant for its OHS management system at its corporate office - YES BANK house, YES Fintech Center - Airoli and 
30 Branches by BSI Group India Private Limited. The Bank has also adopted an ESG Supplier Code of Conduct which is aligned to the ten 
principles of the United Global Compact, and can be accessed here.
4. 	
The Bank has put in place a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy in line with the requirements of Section 135 of The Companies Act, 2013 
and in accordance with the Companies Rules, 2014. The policy can be accessed here. The Bank’s performance against its Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy and its compliance with statutory requirements is reviewed by the CSR & ESG Committee of the Board on a half-
yearly basis. The Bank has undertaken a CSR commitment to catalyse employment and entrepreneurship opportunities for over 100,000 
youth by the year 2026 and has made steady headway towards achieving its target reaching over 68,000 youth and farmers, at the end of 
FY 2024-25.  To read more about the Bank’s progress towards achieving its CSR commitment, please refer to the “Corporate Social 
Responsibility” section on page 192 of the Bank’s Integrated Annual Report for FY 2024-25.
5. 	
The Bank has instituted a Human Rights Policy which is aligned to the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, 
and can be accessed here. Performance against the Human Rights Policy and its compliance with statutory requirements are reviewed by 
Board level Committee as and when necessary.
6. 	
The Bank has instituted a comprehensive Grievance Redressal Policy, aligned with the ISO 9001: 2015 Quality Management System and 
ISO 10002:2018 - Guidelines for Complaints Handling in an organization. The policy can be accessed here. The Bank’s performance against 
its Grievance Redressal Policy and its compliance with statutory requirements are reviewed by the Customer Service Committee of the 
Board (Service Excellence Committee) on a half-yearly basis. The implementation of the Bank’s Grievance Redressal processes has been 
independently audited for its adherence to the ISO 9001: 2015 Quality Management System by BSI Group India Pvt. ltd. in FY 2024-25 and 
to the ISO 10002:2018 Guidelines for Complaints Handling in an organization by Bureau Veritas (India) Pvt. Ltd. The Bank has also instituted 
an Information Security Policy and a Cyber Security Policy which are aligned to the ISO 27001:2022 standard on Information Security 
Management System, and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard. The Bank’s performance against its information security 
policies and their compliance with statutory requirements are reviewed by the Executive-level Security Council and the Board on an annual 
basis. The implementation of the Bank’s Information Security Policies was independently audited for its adherence to the ISO 27001:2022 
Information Security Management System by BSI Group India Pvt. ltd. in FY 2024-25.
306
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
12. 	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the Principles material to its business (Yes/No)
N
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate and 
implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
Y
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical resources 
available for the task (Yes/No)
N
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
Y
Any other reason (please specify)
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
Principle 1:
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent 
and Accountable.
A. 	
Essential Indicators
1. 	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year1:
Segments
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes held
Topics/ principles covered under the training and its impact
% age of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the awareness 
programmes^
Board of 
Directors
6
•	 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption,
•	 Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti Money Laundering (AML)
•	 Cyber Security Risks and Resilience
•	 Climate Change Risk & Sustainability
•	 Social Media landscape
•	 IT and Cyber Security
•	 Operational Risk Management
•	 Branch Banking, Credit Cards and Merchant Acquiring Products, Retail 
Asset Products, Fee Based Products, SME Banking Products, Digital Banking, 
Wholesale Banking and Financial Markets products
85%
Key 
Managerial 
Personnel
12
•	 Building Risk & Compliance Culture
•	 Crisis Management
•	 Disclosures and Declarations Directors of the Bank
•	 Policies under LODR & Companies Act
•	 Secretarial Standards
•	 Information Security
•	 Human Rights Policy
•	 Insider Trading
100%
Employees 
other than 
BoD and 
KMPs
8,162*
•	 Code of Conduct
•	 Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal (POSH) policy
•	 Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti Money Laundering (AML)
•	 Information Security
•	 Operational Risk Management & Business Continuity Plan
•	 Anti-Bribery and Anti -Corruption Control
98.49%
Workers
Not Applicable
^Percentage includes persons who have attended atleast one of the training and awareness programmes held for their respective segment
*Trainings comprise 7,604 classroom & live digital training programmes and 558 E-learning modules
1GRI 2-17, GRI 205-2
307
307
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. 	
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the 
entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in 
the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website)1:
Monetary
Sr. 
No
Particulars
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Amount (In 
INR)
Brief of 
the Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
1
Penalty/ Fine
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
2
Settlement
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
3
Compounding fee
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
Non-Monetary
Sr. 
No
Particulars
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
1
Imprisonment
NA
NA
NA
NA
2
Punishment
NA
NA
NA
NA
There were no penalties levied on the Bank which crossed the materiality threshold of the Bank as specified under Regulation 30 of the 
Listing Regulations.
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or 
non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
NA
NA
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a 
web-link to the policy.
	
Yes. YES BANK has instituted a comprehensive Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy (ABAC Policy) aligned with the Bank’s 
Code of Conduct, various other policies, rules, and regulations adopted by the Bank, and in conformance with the legal and 
statutory framework of anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation prevalent in India. The ABAC Policy reflects the Bank’s 
and its management’s commitment to maintain the highest ethical standards while conducting its business in an open, fair 
and accountable manner, in line with best practices in corporate governance. The objective of this Policy is to ensure that 
neither YES BANK nor any of its employees (fulltime or contractual employees, including trainees and interns), directors, 
agents, associates, vendors, consultants, advisors, representatives, or intermediaries, indulge in any acts of bribery and 
corruption in discharging of their official duties towards the Bank, either in their own name or in the name of the Bank. 
YES BANK’s Anti Bribery and Corruption Policy is available on the Bank’s website on the weblink: https://www.yesbank.in/
pdf?name=ybl_abac_policy.pdf
5. 	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement 
agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption1:
Particulars
FY 2024-25 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24 
(Previous Financial Year)
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Nil
Nil
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
1GRI 2-27, GRI 205-3
308
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
6. 	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2024-25 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24 
(Previous Financial Year)
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest of the 
Directors
Nil
NA
Nil
NA
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
Nil
NA
Nil
NA
7. 	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by 
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
	
Not applicable
8. 	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the following 
format:
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Number of days of accounts payables*
16
24*
*For the purpose of the above disclosure, accounts payables is calculated based on simple average of unprocessed invoice claims outstanding at 
the beginning and end of each financial year. In FY 2024-25, the Bank amended its methodology for calculating “cost of goods/ services procured”, 
in line with the definition of “total purchases” provided in the BRSR-Core Reporting Standard, formulated by the Industry Standards Forum 
(notified through SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177, dated December 20, 2024). Cost of goods/ services procured 
now includes all payments routed through the organization’s vendor payment processing systems, along with the net change in unprocessed 
claims between the beginning and end of each financial year. The amendments have been applied retrospectively to the corresponding data 
points for FY 2023-24. Accordingly, the number of days of accounts payables for FY 2023-24 has been restated1.
Independent reasonable assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 493)
9. 	
Open-ness of business
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-with loans 
and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Concentration 
of Purchases*
a. 	 Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases
5.20%
7.90%*
b. 	 Number of trading houses where purchases are made from
15
15*
c. 	 Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total purchases from 
trading houses
99.58%
99.76%*
Concentration 
of Sales
a. 	 Sales to dealers / distributors as % of total sales
The Bank is not in the business of sale of goods 
or any other commodity to dealers and hence 
such transactions are not applicable to a Banking 
Company
b. 	 Number of dealers / distributors to whom sales are made
c. 	 Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of total sales to dealers / 
distributors
Share of RPTs 
in*
a. 	 Purchases (Purchases with related parties / Total Purchases)
0.12%
0.07%*
b. 	 Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales)
Nil
Nil
c. 	 Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related parties / 
Total loans & advances)
0.03%
0.37%
d. 	 Investments (Investments in related parties / Total Investments 
made)
0.47%
0.28%
*In FY 2024-25, the Bank amended its methodology for calculating “total purchases” and “purchases from trading houses”, in line with the 
definition of “total purchases” and “trading house” provided in the BRSR-Core Reporting Standard, formulated by the Industry Standards Forum 
(notified through SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177, dated December 20, 2024). The amendments have been applied 
retrospectively to the corresponding data points for FY 2023-24. Accordingly disclosures for “purchases from trading houses as % of total 
1GRI 2-4
309
309
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
purchases”, “number of trading houses where purchases are made from”, “purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total purchases from 
trading houses”, and  “purchases (purchases with related parties / total purchases) for FY 2023-24, have been restated 1.
Independent reasonable assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 493)
B. 	
Leadership Indicators
1. 	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Total number of 
awareness programmes 
held
Topics / principles covered under the training
% age of value chain partners covered (by 
value of business done with such partners) 
under the awareness programmes
3
•	 ESG Overview and ESG fundamentals
•	 Importance of ESG
•	 UN Sustainable Development Goals
•	 Climate & Sustainability Regulations in India
•	 ESG Disclosures in India - BRSR Reporting
22.38%
Based on purchase by value
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
2. 	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No) 
If Yes, provide details of the same.
	
Yes. The Board has formulated and adopted a ‘Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for the Board of Directors and Senior 
Management’, which comprises ethical norms pertaining to avoidance and disclosures of conflicts of interest, amongst 
other fair business practices. The Code is available on the Bank’s website on the weblink: https://www.yesbank.in/
pdf?name=Code_of_Business_Conduct_Ethics_for_the_Board_of_Directors_and_Senior_Management.pdf
Principle 2:
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
A. 	
Essential Indicators
1. 	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental 
and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
Particulars
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Year Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
R&D
Nil
Nil
NA
Capex*
0.53%
0.29%
Migration to inverter ACs resulted in approximately 23,63,929 
megajoules in energy savings during FY 2024-25
*During FY 2024-25, the Bank spent INR 4.68 crore on the replacement of old AC units with energy efficient (star rated) units, including inverter ACs
2.	
a.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
      	 	
Yes
    	
 b. 	 If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
	
The Bank proactively identifies opportunities to source sustainable alternatives to the resources it consumes. In line 
with its target to achieve net zero emission (scope 1 and scope 2), the Bank has migrated key facilities to renewable 
energy. The share of renewable energy in the Bank’s electricity mix rose from 12.31% in the previous year to 20.21% in 
FY 2024-25. The Bank has also eliminated the use of single-use plastics in its operations and switched to procuring 
100% recycled paper (A4) for internal operational use by the centralized stationary management system. The Bank has 
also completed its migration to 100% light-emitting diode (LED) fixtures in all its offices and has begun switching to 
star-rated air conditioners and equipment in its offices. Vendors representing 4.62% of the Bank’s total purchases by 
value for FY 2024-25, are certified to be compliant with social and environmental standards.
1GRI 2-4
310
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
3. 	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, for 
(a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
	
In line with its Environmental Management System, the Bank has instituted robust mechanisms for responsible collection, 
recycling, and disposal of its waste. The Bank has appointed central authorized vendors for the collection, recycling and 
responsible disposal of its e-waste, battery waste and other hazardous waste from all its facilities. The Bank has partnered 
Viagreen to recycle the dry waste generated at key facilities including its corporate office. YES BANK House is equipped with 
a composting unit and a zero liquid discharge facility to minimize the environmental impacts of its operations.
4. 	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the 
waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control 
Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
	
No. Given the nature of YES BANK’s business, EPR is not applicable to the Bank’s activities.
B. 	
Leadership Indicators
1. 	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) 
or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
	
No. The Bank has implemented a Bank-wide ISO 14001:2015 certified, Environmental Management System for identifying 
and minimizing significant environmental aspects and impacts of its business, products, and operations.
NIC Code
Name of 
Product /
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for which the 
Life Cycle Perspective / 
Assessment was conducted
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes/No)
Results communicated in public 
domain (Yes/No) If yes, provide 
the web-link.
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
2. 	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your 
products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly 
describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
Name of Product / Service
Description of the risk / concern
Action Taken
NA
NA
NA
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing 
industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 24-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 23-24 
Previous Financial Year
 Paper (A4) for internal operations
100%
100%
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and safely 
disposed, as per the following format:
Particulars
FY 24-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 23-24 
Previous Financial Year
Re-used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Re-used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics (including packaging)
NIL
NIL
E-waste
Hazardous waste
Other waste
5. 	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of total products sold in respective category
NA
NA
311
311
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Principle 3:
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
A. 	
Essential Indicators
1. 	
a. 	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees1:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B/A)
Number 
(C)
% (C/A)
Number 
(D)
% (D/A)
Number 
(E)
% (E/A)
Number 
(F)
% (F/A)
Permanent employees*
Male
22,021
22,021
100%
22,021
100%
-
-
22,021
100%
-
-
Female
6,643
6,643
100%
6,643
100%
6,643
100%
-
-
6,643
100%
Total
28,664
28,664
100%
28,664
100%
6,643
100%
22,021
100%
6,643
100%
Other than permanent employees
Male
NA
Female
Total
*Figures includes well-being measures for employees based out of offices in India. 26 employees at the Abu Dhabi RO are covered under 
mandatory life and medical insurance schemes under UAE labour laws.
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
b. 	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
% of workers covered by
Total (A)
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B/A)
Number 
(C)
% (C/A)
Number 
(D)
% (D/A)
Number 
(E)
% (E/A)
Number 
(F)
% (F/A)
Permanent workers
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Total
Other than permanent workers
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Total
c. 	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than permanent) 
in the following format –
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Cost incurred on wellbeing measures as a % of total revenue of the company*
0.22%
0.21%*
*The above disclosure includes spending on well-being of employees based out of offices in India. In FY 2024-25, the Bank amended its 
methodology for calculating “cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue”, in line with the BRSR-Core Reporting Standard, 
formulated by the Industry Standards Forum (notified through SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177, dated December 
20, 2024). Cost incurred on well-being measures now includes salaries paid to employees on their maternity and paternity leaves, as well as 
expenses towards health and wellness programmes. The amendments have been applied retrospectively to the corresponding data points for 
FY 2023-24. Accordingly the “cost incurred on wellbeing measures as a % of total revenue of the company” for FY 2023-24, has been restated1.
Independent reasonable assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 493)
1GRI 2-4, GRI 401-2
312
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
2. 	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year.
Benefits
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
No. of employees 
covered as a % of 
total employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % of 
total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of employees 
covered as a % of 
total employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % of 
total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100%
-
Y
100%
-
Y
Gratuity
100%
-
Y
100%
-
Y
ESI
Not Applicable
Others - 
please specify
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
3. 	
Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements 
of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
	
The Bank is cognizant of its responsibility of ensuring easy accessibility of its facilities for differently abled employees, 
customers, and visitors. Over 450 branches of the Bank are equipped with facilities such as ramps to enable differently abled 
employees and customers to use its facilities. Branches where ramps cannot be constructed due to structural challenges, 
are provided with adequate signages and notices. Most of the Bank’s major offices are equipped with elevators, rest rooms, 
amongst other facilities, in line with its policy to support Persons with Disabilities. All employees of the Bank are provided 
training on inclusive communication, including guidance and support in communicating with Persons with Disabilities. 
The Bank has also enhanced its digital platforms such as YES Online with customizable colour themes and scalable text size 
options to support inclusive and user-friendly access.
4. 	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a 
web-link to the policy.
	
The Bank continues to be an equal opportunity employer, committed to creating and nurturing a culture of inclusion 
and belongingness and has zero tolerance towards any form of discrimination. The Bank’s policy on Equal Opportunity 
prevents discrimination on the grounds such as disability, marital status, nationality, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation 
etc and aims to treat all employees and job applicants equally. The policy is available on the Bank’s website on the weblink: 
https://www.yesbank.in/pdf?name=eop.pdf
5. 	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent Employees
Permanent workers
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100.0%
67.0%
NA
NA
Female
99.4%
63.4%
NA
NA
Total
99.87%
66.28%
NA
NA
For more information, refer to the “Work-life Balance” section on page 135 of the Bank’s Integrated Annual Report for FY 2024-25
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the Independent Assurance 
Statement, please refer to page 502)
313
313
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6. 	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and worker? 
If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Particulars
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
NA
Other than Permanent Workers
Permanent Employees
Yes*
Other than Permanent Employees
*To ensure that all employee grievances are dealt promptly and fairly, the Bank has a policy on Employee Grievance Redressal that defines the 
channels for grievance reporting and a detailed redressal mechanism. Employee Grievance Redressal is part of Bank’s Human Capital policies and 
is available to all employees on the Bank’s Intranet
7. 	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
Category
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees / 
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union (B)
% (B/A)
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees / 
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union (D)
% (D/C)
Total Permanent Employees
NA
Male
Female
Total Permanent Workers
Male
Female
8. 	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Total (A)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
Total 
(D)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees*
Male
22,043
2,120
9.62%
21,853
99.14%
21,898
Nil
Nil
21,775
99.44%
Female
6,647
892
13.42%
6,523
98..13%
6,103
Nil
Nil
6,044
99.03%
Total
28,690
3,012
10.50%
28,376
98.91%
28,001
Nil
Nil
27,819
99.35%
Workers
Male
NA
Female
Total
*Includes only permanent employees
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
314
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
9. 	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker1:
Category
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Total
No.
%
Total
No.
%
Employees*
Male
18,780
18,780
100%
18,455
18,455
100%
Female
5,411
5,411
100%
5,007
5,007
100%
Total
24,191
24,191
100%
23,462
23,462
100%
Workers
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Total
*The Bank’s annual performance review (at the end of the Financial Year) is carried out for all eligible employees who have completed a minimum 
of six months with the organization. The data excludes KMPs.
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
10. 	 Health and safety management system:
a. 	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, 
the coverage such system?
	
The Bank has implemented a Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSMS) covering the Bank’s corporate 
office - YES BANK House -  Santacruz, YES Fintech Center - Airoli, along with 30 branches. In FY 2024-25, the Bank’s OHSMS 
achieved the ISO 45001:2018 certification.
b. 	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the 
entity?
	
As part of the Bank’s Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSMS), monthly safety audits and annual 
Hazard Identification & Risk Assessment (HIRA) exercises are carried out at the Bank’s facilities including YES BANK House 
- Santacuz and YES Fintech Center - Airoli.
c. 	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks. 
(Y/N)
	
Yes. Employees can report work related hazards by reporting them through the Infrastructure and Facilities Management 
(IFM) Helpdesk or YES Serve portal. Regular consultation between employees and IFM teams are also conducted through 
regional IFM council meets, where work related hazards can be highlighted.
d. 	
Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/ No)
	
Yes. Employees at YES BANK have access to a wide range of non-occupational medical and healthcare services:
	
•	
Medical Center: The Bank provides free medical support services for employees at these 5 key centers - YES BANK 
HOUSE (Santacruz), YES FINTECH Centre (Airoli), Noida office, NOC Gurgaon and NOC Chennai. The primary objective of 
these medical centres is to promote a sense of care and support at the workplace In addition to medical support, the 
Bank also provides physiotherapy and dietician consultations to employees
	
•	
Insurance Benefits: A comprehensive ‘Group Mediclaim Policy’ covering pre and post hospitalization of employees 
and their enrolled dependents (spouse, children) is sponsored by the Bank for all employees. The Bank also sponsors 
the ‘Group Personal Accident Policy’ and the ‘Group Term Life Insurance Policy’ with Critical & Terminal Illness rider 
for the employees
	
•	
Employee Health Check-up Policy:  To encourage preventive medical check-ups, the Bank has put in place an Employee 
Health Check-up policy for all employees. The Bank wholly sponsors the health check-up for employees aged 45 years 
and above. Employees below 45 age group can avail the services at discounted rates
1GRI 404-3
315
315
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
•	
Additionally, teleconsultation services are available for all employees and their families, 24X7, to improve accessibility 
to healthcare services
11. 	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format1:
	
Given the Bank’s nature of business, it faces limited risks of work-related injuries and fatalities. There were no reports of 
work-related injury, fatalities or lost time due to injury.
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person hours 
worked)
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
NA
NA
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
NA
NA
No. of fatalities
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
NA
NA
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities)
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
NA
NA
Independent reasonable assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 493)
12. 	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
	
The Bank has a holistic approach to safeguarding the health and well-being of its employees. Medical centers with qualified 
doctors are stationed at major facilities such as YES BANK House, Chennai, Gurgaon, Airoli, and Max Tower, Noida. The Bank 
has also set up robust emergency preparedness plans which includes regular fire drills and detailed fire evacuation plans. 
The Bank’s workspaces are ergonomically designed and all infectious disease prevention protocols are diligently followed. 
Sick Leaves and remote work options are also available to employees. The Bank provides Medical Insurance, Life insurance, 
Critical illness and ex-gratia covers to help the workers and their families in case of hospitalisation, prolonged medical 
treatment, or death.
	
The Bank conducts webinars from time to time for the physiological and psychological wellbeing of the employees, including 
a repository for reference is made available to employees, as a ready reckoner. To help YES Bankers take better control of 
their health and wellness, a series of webinars under the brand ‘Wellness Webinars’ were organised in collaboration with 
experienced health professionals, Subject Matter Experts, and healthcare specialists covering topics on boosting immunity, 
handling lifestyle problems, maintaining Heart Health, Mental Health & Wellness, preventive healthcare, etc. Additionally, 
various intra & inter-corporate sports events were organised for employees which saw substantial participation levels.
	
The Bank has also set up a fitness center and a Yoga Studio at its corporate office to aid employees in achieving their fitness 
goals. Employees are also imparted first-aid training, enabling them to address any kind of medical emergency before the 
arrival of professional help.
13. 	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers1:
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Working Conditions
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Health & Safety
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
1GRI 403-9, GRI 403-10, GRI 406-1
316
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
14. 	 Assessments for the year:
Particulars
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
 18.20*%
Working Conditions
 18.20*%
*The percentage mentioned here represents the percentage of headcount working at the facilities (to the Bank’s total headcount), that were 
assessed as part of the Bank’s ISO 45001 Occupation Health and Safety Management System (OHSMS), third party certification audits
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
15. 	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant 
risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
	
As part of the implementation of its Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSMS), the Bank has undertaken 
a number of initiatives and corrective actions to significantly improve OHS practices in its operations. The Bank has rolled out 
a comprehensive OHS Training module on the Bank’s e-Learning platform aimed at building awareness on health and safety 
amongst employees. The Bank has instituted processes for conducting regular fire safety trainings covering employees 
and contract staff, conducted refresher training for technical executives, facility supervisors and security supervisors on 
emergency preparedness, and strengthened the supervision of emergency preparedness related activities through regular 
monitoring and tracking. Additionally, employees are made aware of potential OHS related issues, through regular advisories 
and relevant signages in order to prevent OHS incidents.
B. 	
Leadership Indicators
1. 	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees (Y/N) (B) 
Workers (Y/N)
(A)	 Employees -Yes. For its employees, the Bank has implemented policies wherein, nominees of employees are supported 
in the event of the employee’s death. Nominees are entitled to cash benefits under the Group Term Life Insurance, Ex 
Gratia, Employees Deposit Linked Insurance, Group Personal Accident (in case of accidental death) and Gratuity as per the 
applicable Payment of Gratuity Act. Additionally, immediate ex-gratia of two months’ salary is extended to the families of 
deceased employees.
(B)	
Workers - Not Applicable
2. 	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the 
value chain partners.
	
The Bank has incorporated terms in the contracts and the purchase orders issued to suppliers which mandate statutory and 
legal compliances, as applicable. Also, the legal contracts executed with vendors include provisions from the Bank’s ESG 
Supplier Code of Conduct which include the ESG parameters as applicable to the vendor. The Bank also reviews statutory 
processes and payments of manpower suppliers deployed at YES BANK, by conducting audits in line with the labour laws 
and basis a checklist of compliance requirements.
3. 	
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-health / fatalities 
(as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or 
whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
	
Not Applicable
4. 	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of 
career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)1
	
No. The Bank currently does not provide transition assistance programmes.
1GRI 404-2
317
317
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5. 	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Particulars
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
15.88%
Working Conditions
15.88%
Based on purchase by value
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
6. 	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from 
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
	
The Bank is in the early stages of engaging and assessing its upstream value chain partners on aspects such as ESG 
awareness, environmental performance, health & safety practices, human rights, and ESG related disclosures. In future, the 
Bank’s aims to use these assessments to identify any potential areas of risks or concerns, and implement corrective actions, 
where necessary, to minimize any negative impacts of its supply chain.
Principle 4:
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
A. 	
Essential Indicators
1. 	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
Based on a detailed survey of its top management and senior leadership, the Bank has identified 10 critical stakeholder 
groups that are most affected by its business activities, and in turn, impact the Bank’s ability to create value. The Bank’s 10 
key stakeholder groups include, employees, regulatory bodies, customers, shareholders & investors, business associates, 
vendors, industry & peers, financial & ESG analysts, community, and the media.
	
For more information on the Bank’s key stakeholder groups and its stakeholder engagement model, please refer to the 
“Stakeholder Engagement" section on page 70 of the Bank’s Integrated Annual Report.
2. 	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group.
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), Other
Frequency of engagement 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly 
/ others – please specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Employees
No
•	 Employee Service Desk (queries and 
grievance redressal)
•	 HRMS and Bank’s intranet
•	 Employee engagement surveys & 
wellness initiatives
•	 Learning Management System (LMS)
•	 Learning & Development 
interventions
•	 Employee performance management
•	 E-mailers and virtual and in-person 
meetings and townhalls
•	 Most channels such as the 
LMS, HRMS and intranet 
are permanent, ongoing and 
continuous
•	 Some channels such as 
Employee Service Desk are 
accessed on as need basis
•	 Some initiatives such as 
Employee engagement 
surveys and performance 
management are on an annual 
basis
•	 Training & Growth
•	 Employee Wellbeing
•	 Non-Discrimination
•	 Career Progression
318
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), Other
Frequency of engagement 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly 
/ others – please specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Regulatory 
Bodies
No
•	 Mandatory filings with regulators 
including RBI and SEBI (Stock 
Exchanges)
•	 Consultation papers
•	 Training workshops
•	 Engagement at banking forums
•	 Meetings
•	 Letters and emails
•	 Mandatory filings are on a 
periodic basis
•	 Other engagements are on ad-
hoc, need basis
•	 Regulatory Compliances
•	 Participation in key 
programmes of national 
priorities
•	 Consultations on 
emerging regulatory 
landscape around areas 
such as climate risk
Customers
Yes
(women 
microfinance 
borrowers 
and financial 
inclusion savings 
customers)
•	 Branches & Retail Assets Centres 
(Walk-ins)
•	 Contact Centres (Voice and Non-
Voice)
•	 Digital Channels (Net Banking & 
Mobile Banking)
•	 Branch Level Service Committee 
Meetings (Walk-ins)
•	 Standing Committee on Customer 
Service (Online)
•	 BC Network (Walk-ins)
•	 Transaction NPS Surveys (Emails/
SMS/Calls)
•	 Community Meetings
•	 SMS, pamphlets & collaterals
•	 Some channels such as 
Contact Centres and Net-
Banking etc. are available 
24X7
•	 Some channels such branches 
and BCBOs are available 
during work hours
•	 Some channels like Branch 
Level Service Committee 
Meetings are held monthly
•	 Channels such as NPS surveys 
are triggered basis customer 
transactions
•	 Product features and 
benefits
•	 Customer experience 
and service quality
•	 Digital solution, user 
interfaces, cybersecurity 
and privacy
•	 Relationship 
management
•	 Grievance redressal
•	 Financial literacy 
trainings
Shareholders 
& Investors
(Equity and 
Debt)
No
•	 Annual Report
•	 Annual General Meeting
•	 Company Website
•	 Analyst Calls
•	 Investor Meets & Road Shows
•	 Annual CDP Disclosure
•	 Response to ESG research and 
ratings agencies
•	 Press Releases
•	 Communication to Stock Exchanges, 
SEBI Complaints Redress System 
(SCORES)
•	 Bank's Registrar & Transfer Agents
•	 Some channels such as AGMs 
are held annually
•	 Some channels like analyst 
calls are held quarterly
•	 Some channels such as press 
releases, communication to 
stock exchanges etc. are done 
either on a periodic or an ad-
hoc, need basis
•	 Financial results
•	 Profitability and returns
•	 Business strategy, future 
plans, value creation 
model
•	 ESG performance
Business 
Associates
No
•	 API Banking console for Relation 
Managers (RM) to log complaints on 
behalf of clients
•	 Dedicated L1 and L2 desks to 
address queries, complaints and 
technical issues raised by Fintechs, 
Sub-Member Banks (SMBs) and 
NBFCs
•	 Relationship Managers
•	 All channels are permanent, 
ongoing and continuous
•	 API security and 
compliance
•	 Information security of 
data exchanged with 
Fintechs, SMBs and 
NBFCs
•	 Product and service 
quality
•	 Customer service 
channels
319
319
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), Other
Frequency of engagement 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly 
/ others – please specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Vendors
No
•	 Online procurement portals
•	 Supplier Sustainability Workshops
•	 Letters, emailers, communication via 
the Strategic Procurement Unit (SPU)
•	 Annual Vendor Evaluation
•	 Channels such as procurement 
portals are permanent, 
ongoing and continuous
•	 Some channels such as 
sustainability workshops are 
held periodically
•	 Vendor communication by 
SPU is done on an ad-hoc, 
need basis
•	 Transparency in sourcing 
processes
•	 Business opportunities 
for MSMEs and local 
vendors
•	 Commercial and 
technical evaluation of 
proposals, terms and 
conditions
Industry & 
Peers
No
•	 Memberships with industry and 
trade associations such as CII, FICCI 
& IBA
•	 Memberships with national and 
international associations, such 
as UNEP Finance Initiative, UNGC, 
amongst others
•	 Industry conferences, forums, 
consultation and meetings
•	 Consultative sessions and White 
Papers
•	 Engagements through 
industry associations such 
as IBA are held on a periodic 
basis
•	 Engagement through industry 
conferences and meeting are 
done on an ad-hoc, need basis
•	 Knowledge sharing 
and partnerships on 
emerging areas such as 
sustainable finance and 
climate action
•	 Developing Centres 
of Excellence on key 
subject matters such as 
FINTECH, ESG, amongst 
others
Financial & 
ESG Analysts
No
•	 Analyst Conference Call
•	 One-on-one and group meetings
•	 Investor/analyst conferences
•	 Analyst from Credit Rating Agencies
•	 Analyst call are held on a 
quarterly basis
•	 Other engagement channels 
are utilized on an ad-hoc, need 
basis
•	 Financial results
•	 Profitability and returns
•	 Business strategy, future 
plans, value creation 
model
•	 ESG performance
Community
Yes
(CSR 
beneficiaries and 
implementation 
partners)
•	 Employee Volunteering through 
EVOLVE initiative
•	 Beneficiary interactions as part of 
CSR project monitoring
•	 Video calls and community meetings
•	 Capacity building workshops with 
implementation partners
•	 Media & press releases
•	 Thought leadership forums
•	 Some channels such as 
employee volunteering are 
utilized on a periodic basis
•	 Other forms of engagement 
are utilized on an ad-hoc, need 
basis
•	 Feedback from 
beneficiaries on project 
execution
•	 Training on work 
readiness, financial 
literacy
•	 Impact of CSR projects
Media
No
•	 Press releases & media coverage
•	 Interviews of the MD & CEO, and top 
management
•	 Bank's digital assets including 
website, social media handles
•	 All channels are utilized on an 
ad-hoc and need basis
•	 Financial results
•	 Views and insights from 
top management on 
the Bank’s business 
strategy, future plans, 
long-terms value 
creation model
•	 New products, services 
and developments
320
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
B. 	
Leadership Indicators
1. 	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social 
topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
	
The Bank follows a robust stakeholder engagement model, employing a combination of structured, and need-based 
engagement mechanisms to consult and engage with its key stakeholder groups on a regular basis. Stakeholder groups 
are mapped to relevant business units and support functions who are delegated the responsibility of working closely with 
stakeholders to better understand and address their needs and incorporate their feedback into the Bank’s overall business 
strategy. Key outcomes from such stakeholder consultations are dually presented to relevant Board Committees and form 
important inputs to decision making.
2. 	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social 
topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were 
incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
	
Yes. Stakeholder consultation is a crucial part of the Bank’s Materiality Assessment process, which is used to identify 
material environmental and social topics, relevant to Bank’s value creation process. For detailed information on the 
incorporation of stakeholder feedback in the Bank’s Materiality Assessment process, including the policies and initiatives 
implemented by the Bank to address key material topics, refer to the “Materiality Assessment” section on page 76 of the 
Bank’s Integrated Annual Report.
3. 	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalized 
stakeholder groups.
	
YES BANK aims to address the financial inclusion needs of vulnerable/ marginalized stakeholder groups, through its targeted 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programmes and rural banking initiatives.
	
Through its social development arm, YES Foundation, the Bank has developed employability initiatives aimed at skilling 
and providing market-oriented jobs to underprivileged youth. Over 16,000 youth have been skilled in market-oriented 
jobs across sectors since 2021 with over 30% of the youth trained being women. YES Foundation has also undertaken 
livelihood and entrepreneurship initiatives such as interventions in climate resilient farming, irrigation access, watershed 
development, entrepreneurship development trainings and market linkages, which have enabled over 52,000 farmers, 
women and artisans from rural India to enhance their incomes.
	
The Bank has also set up a dedicated Inclusive Social Banking division which through its flagship group-lending programme, 
YES Livelihood Enhancement Action Programme (YES LEAP), provides financial services to women microfinance borrowers 
through Corporates and Microfinance Institutions as Business Correspondents. With 100% of these groups being women, 
YES LEAP continues to contribute significantly towards strengthening women entrepreneurship and empowerment in rural 
areas of India.
321
321
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Principle 5:
Businesses should respect and promote human rights
A. 	
Essential Indicators
1. 	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the 
following format:
Category
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Total (A)
No. of employees 
/ workers 
covered (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. of employees 
/ workers 
covered (D)
% (D / C)
Employees
Permanent
28,690
9,101
31.72%
28,001
19,239
68.70%
Other than Permanent
35
0
0.00%
98
35
35.71%
Total Employees
28,725
9,101
31.68%
28,099
19,274
68.59%
Workers
Permanent
NA
Other than Permanent
Total Workers
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
2. 	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Total (A)
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total (D)
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Permanent
28,690
-
-
28,690
100%
28,001
-
-
28,001
100%
Male
22,043
-
-
22,043
100%
21,898
-
-
21,898
100%
Female
6,647
-
-
6,647
100%
6,103
-
-
6,103
100%
Other than Permanent
NIL
-
-
-
-
NIL
-
-
-
-
Male
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Workers
Permanent
NA
Male
Female
Other than Permanent
Male
Female
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
322
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
3. 	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages,
a. 	
Median remuneration / wages 
Particulars
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category
Board of Directors
10
56,75,000
3
37,50,000
Key Managerial Personnel
5
2,52,74,868
-
-
Employees other than BoD and KMP
22,038
9,00,000
6,647
7,16,533
Workers
NA
•	
The Bank follows an employee compensation philosophy that is gender agnostic and is based on parameters like role, experience, 
proficiency, level of competency, relevant performance assessment measures etc.
•	
Remuneration for Executive Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, and Employees, includes fixed pay, variable pay paid during the year, 
perquisite value as calculated under the Income Tax Act, 1961, and does not include value of stock options
•	
Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors includes fixed pay and sitting fees
•	
For the purpose of this calculation, remuneration of Board of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Employees, who were active as on 
financial year ended, March 31, 2025, have been considered
•	
Mr. Manish Jain, was appointed as Executive Director of the Bank w.e.f. December 11, 2024 and his remuneration since the period of 
appointment as Executive Director has been considered for the purpose of this calculation
•	
Ms. Shweta Jalan has waived her right to receive sitting fees for attending Board/ Board level Committee meetings and remuneration 
entitled under extant Acts/ Regulations/Bank’s Policy during her tenure as Director of the Bank
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
b. 	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format: 
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
17.63%
16.61%*
*In FY 2024-25, the Bank amended its methodology for computing “wages” in line with the definition of “wages” provided in the BRSR-Core 
Reporting Standard, formulated by the Industry Standards Forum (notified through SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177, 
dated December 20, 2024). The amendments have been applied retrospectively to the corresponding data point for FY 2023-24, Accordingly the 
“gross wages paid to females as % of total wages” for FY 2023-24 has been restated1.
Independent reasonable assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 493)
4. 	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or 
contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
Yes. Any grievances related to violations of human rights can be reported to the Bank appointed Liaison Officer, details of 
which are provided in the Bank’s Human Rights Policy available on the Bank’s website.
5. 	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
	
Grievances related to human rights can be raised through the Bank’s ‘Corporate Whistle Blower Initiative’ (CWI) portal 
(using the organization code “YESCARE”), which is an independent online reporting service aimed at facilitating secure and 
confidential communication between the Whistle Blower and the independent Whistleblower Committee constituted by 
the Bank. Any grievances related to violations of human rights can also be reported to the Bank appointed Liaison Officer, 
details of which are provided in the Bank’s Human Rights Policy available on the Bank’s website. All grievances received are 
evaluated and routed to relevant Committees for guidance, suitable action and appropriate closure.
1GRI 2-4
323
323
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6. 	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Particulars
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
30
13
*
23
04
#
Discrimination at workplace
-
-
-
-
-
-
Child Labour
-
-
-
-
-
-
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
-
-
-
-
-
-
Wages
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other human rights related issues
-
-
-
-
-
-
*For the pending cases, the investigation has been completed and further action is in progress. The same will be completed within statutory timelines
#The pending complaints were investigated within stipulated timelines
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
7. 	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 
2013, in the following format:
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
30
23
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
0.47%
0.38%
Complaints on POSH upheld
15*
9
* With regard to the 15 substantiated complaints, the Bank has taken necessary actions basis IC findings and severity of the findings, including staff 
action such as warning, strict warning, strict warning with impact on annual performance review along with transfer and discontinuation of services.
*The 15 complaints include 4 complaints that were raised in FY 2023-24 but upheld in FY 2024-25 and does not include 13 complaints which 
were pending as on March 31, 2025 (please refer to details mentioned in Q.6 above).
Independent reasonable assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 493)
8. 	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
	
The Bank has implemented a web-based ‘Corporate Whistle Blower Initiative’ (CWI) portal which is an independent online 
reporting service aimed at facilitating secure and confidential communication between complainants and the organization. 
The Bank has also set up Internal Committees to investigate sexual harassment complaints in line with the Bank’s policy 
on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace (POSH). All complaints are investigated in an impartial and confidential 
manner, with any form of retaliation against complainants strictly prohibited and subject to disciplinary action. The salient 
features of the POSH policy and the details of the Internal Committees are shared with all employees and displayed at 
branches and offices of the Bank.
	
As per the Bank’s Code of Conduct, every employee is required to uphold and maintain the dignity of other executives 
working in the Bank. They should maintain a productive work environment that is free from sexual harassment. Those who 
violate this Code of Conduct may be subject to disciplinary action, including possible dismissal.
9. 	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
	
Yes. The Bank’s ESG Supplier Code of Conduct covers human rights considerations and is a part of the Bank’s contracts and 
orders to suppliers.
324
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
10. 	 Assessments for the year:
Particulars
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
11.3%*
Forced/involuntary labour
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others – please specify
*The percentage mentioned here represents the percentage of headcount working at the facilities (to the Bank’s total headcount), that were 
assessed as part of the Bank’s independent Human Rights Assessment, undertaken by a third party
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
11. 	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 9 above.
	
There are no significant risks or concerns arising from the assessments mentioned above.
B. 	
Leadership Indicators
1. 	
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/complaints.
	
There have been no business process modifications introduced as a result of human rights grievances/ complaints.
2. 	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due diligence conducted.
	
In FY 2024-25, the Bank undertook an independent human rights due diligence exercise aimed at assessing the Bank’s 
policies and processes, identifying potential human rights related risks, implementing measures to prevent human rights 
violations, maintaining compliance with legal standards, and promoting ethical practices within the Bank’s operations. 
The human rights assessments and the associated due diligence covered eight critical aspects of human rights, essential 
for maintaining ethical and fair workplace practices, viz. child labour, discrimination, freedom of association and collective 
bargaining, fair remuneration, fair working hours, occupational health and safety, bonded labour, workers’ involvement 
and protection of human rights. The process involved interactions and interviews with a diverse group of stakeholders, 
including senior management, employees from various departments, contractors, housekeeping staff, and security staff, 
ensuring comprehensive information gathering across different levels of the organization. The assessment covered the 
Bank’s corporate office, YES BANK House and a branch in Mumbai.
3. 	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
The Bank is cognizant of its responsibility of ensuring easy accessibility of its facilities for differently abled employees, 
customers, and visitors. Over 450 branches of the Bank are equipped facilities such as ramps to enable differently abled 
employees and customers to use its facilities. Branches where ramps cannot be constructed due to structural challenges, 
are provided with adequate signages and notices. Most of the Bank’s major offices are equipped with elevators, rest rooms, 
amongst other facilities, in line with its policy to support Persons with Disabilities. All employees of the Bank are provided 
training on inclusive communication, including guidance and support in communicating with Persons with Disabilities. 
The Bank has also enhanced its digital platforms such as YES Online with customizable colour themes and scalable text size 
options to support inclusive and user-friendly access.
325
325
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4. 	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Particulars
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Child labour
15.88%
Forced/involuntary labour
14.73%
Sexual harassment
15.88%
Discrimination at workplace
14.73%
Wages
14.73%
Based on purchase by value
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
5. 	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 4 above.
	
The Bank is in the early stages of engaging and assessing its upstream value chain partners on aspects such as ESG 
awareness, environmental performance, health & safety practices, human rights and ESG related disclosures. In future, the 
Bank’s aims to use these assessments to identify any potential areas of risks or concerns, and implement corrective actions, 
where necessary, to minimize any negative impacts of its supply chain.
Principle 6:
Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
A. 	
Essential Indicators
1.  	 Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format1:
Parameter
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
(In Gigajoules)
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year*
(In Gigajoules)
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
36,875.76
26,421.56
Total fuel consumption (B)
-
-
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
-
-
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)#
36,875.76
26,421.56
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
145,624.35
188,258.62
Total fuel consumption (E)
9,542.97
8,999.41
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
-
-
Total energy consumed from non- renewable sources (D+E+F)
155,167.32
197,258.03
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
192,043.08
223,679.59
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations) 
[GJ / Revenue (` crore)]
5.23
6.84
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
[GJ / Revenue (USD million)]
10.80
13.97
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
-
-
Energy intensity [GJ/ Full Time Employee (FTE)]
6.69
7.99
#Percentage of energy consumed from renewable sources stood at 19.20%
*From FY 2024-25, as part of this disclosure, the Bank has begun reporting its energy consumption in ‘gigajoules’ and its revenue from operations 
in ‘` crore’. The Bank has also begun using the latest PPP conversion rate for India (INR 20.66/ international dollar for 2025 and INR 20.43/ 
international dollar for 2024), published by the International Monetary Fund, in accordance with the requirement of the BRSR-Core Reporting 
Standard, formulated by the Industry Standards Forum (notified through SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177, dated 
December 20, 2024). All three amendments mentioned have been applied retrospectively to the corresponding data points for FY 2023-24. 
Accordingly, figures for FY 2023-24 have been restated1.
1GRI 2-4, GRI 302-1, GRI 302-3
326
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Independent reasonable assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 493)
2. 	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and 
Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have 
been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
	
Not Applicable. YES BANK does not have any sites or facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the PAT scheme.
3. 	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year*
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
Surface water
-
-
Groundwater
-
-
Third party water
317,867.20
313,636.30
Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
317,867.20
313,636.30
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
317,867.20
313,636.30
Water intensity per rupee of turnover 
(Total water consumption / Revenue from operations) 
[KL / Revenue (` crore)]
8.65
9.59
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total water consumption / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
[KL / Revenue (USD million)]
17.87
19.59
Water intensity in terms of physical output
-
-
Water intensity [KL/ Full Time Employee (FTE)]
11.08
11.20
*From FY 2024-25, as part of this disclosure, the Bank has begun estimating water withdrawal basis guidelines by the Central Ground Water 
Authority (CGWA), in accordance with the requirement of the BRSR-Core Reporting Standard, formulated by the Industry Standards Forum 
(notified through SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177, dated December 20, 2024). The Bank has also begun using 
the latest PPP conversion rate for India (INR 20.66/ international dollar for 2025 and INR 20.43/ international dollar for 2024), published by 
the IMF, in accordance with the aforementioned standard. The Bank has also begun reporting its revenue from operations in ‘` crore’. All three 
amendments mentioned have been applied retrospectively to the corresponding data points for FY 2023-24. Accordingly, figures for FY 2023-24 
have been restated1.
Independent reasonable assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 493)
4. 	
Provide the following details related to water discharged1:
Parameter
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year*
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) 	 To Surface water
Nil
Nil
	
-	
No treatment
-
-
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(ii) 	 To Groundwater
Nil
Nil
	
-	
No treatment
-
-
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(iii) 	To Seawater
Nil
Nil
	
-	
No treatment
-
-
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
1GRI 2-4
327
327
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parameter
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year*
(iv) 	Sent to third-parties
Nil
Nil
	
-	
No treatment
-
-
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(v) 	 Others
-
-
	
-	
No treatment
117,042.40
112,553.80
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
117,042.40
112,553.80
*From FY 2024-25, as part of this disclosure, the Bank has begun estimating water discharge basis guidelines on ‘flushing litres per head/ day’ 
by the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA), as mentioned in the BRSR-Core Reporting Standard, formulated by the Industry Standards Forum 
(notified through SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177, dated December 20, 2024). The estimation methodology has 
been applied retrospectively to the corresponding data points for FY 2023-24. Accordingly, figures for FY 2023-24 have been restated1. The data 
does not include water discharge from the Bank's registered office YES BANK House, which is a zero-liquid discharge facility.
Independent reasonable assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 493)
5. 	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation.
	
Yes. Given YES BANK’s nature of business, water consumption and discharge is minimal and is not considered a significant 
environmental aspect for the Bank. The Bank has set up a zero liquid discharge facility at its corporate office YES BANK House
6. 	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
NOx
Kg
2,780.43
967.60
SOx
Kg
625.55
595.58
Particulate matter (PM)
Kg
258.25
493.76
HC
Kg
1,538.47
478.23
CO
Kg
1,855.05
699.81
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
7. 	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format1:
Parameter
Please 
specify unit
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
CO2 
Emissions 
Tons
CH4 
Emissions 
(tCO2e)
N2O 
Emissions 
(tCO2e)
HFCs 
(tCO2e)
CO2 
Emissions 
Tons
CH4 
Emissions 
(tCO2e)
N2O 
Emissions 
(tCO2e)
HFCs 
(tCO2e)
Total Scope 1 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, 
SF6, NF3,  
if available)
tCO2e
664.46
0.10
8.77
3912.37
625.06
0.07
8.30
2816.80
Total: 4,585.69
Total: 3,450.23
Total Scope 2 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, 
SF6, NF3,  
if available)
tCO2e
29,408.03
37,442.55
1GRI 2-4, GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2, GRI 305-4
328
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Parameter
Please 
specify unit
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Total Scope 1 and Scope 
2 emission intensity per 
rupee of turnover  
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 
GHG emissions / Revenue 
from operations)
tCO2e / 
Revenue  
(` Crore)
0.92
1.25*
Total Scope 1 and Scope 
2 emission intensity per 
rupee of turnover adjusted 
for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP)
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 
GHG emissions / Revenue 
from operations, adjusted 
for PPP)
tCO2e / 
Revenue  
(USD million)
1.91
2.55*
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2
emission intensity in 
terms of physical output
-
-
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emission intensity
[Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 
GHG emissions / Full Time 
Employee (FTE)]
tCO2e / FTE
1.18
1.46
*From FY 2024-25, as part of this disclosure, the Bank has begun reporting its revenue from operations in ‘` crore’. The Bank has also 
begun using the latest PPP conversion rate for India (INR 20.66/ international dollar for 2025 and INR 20.43/ international dollar for 2024), 
published by the International Monetary Fund, in accordance with the requirement of the BRSR-Core Reporting Standard, formulated 
by the Industry Standards Forum (notified through SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177, dated December 20, 
2024). Both amendments mentioned have been applied retrospectively to the corresponding data points for FY 2023-24. Accordingly, 
“intensity per rupee of turnover” and “intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for (PPP)” figures for FY 2023-24 have been restated1. 
The data does not include water discharge from the Bank's registered office YES BANK House, which is a zero-liquid discharge facility.
•	
Scope 1 emissions include refrigerant leakage from Air Conditioners used in the Bank’s facilities; diesel consumption by DG sets in the 
Bank’s facilities and petrol consumption by bank owned vehicles. Emission factors have been sourced from Department for Environment, 
Food & Rural Affairs, GOV-UK (DEFRA)
•	
Scope 2 emissions constitute CO2 emissions from grid electricity consumed by YES BANK. For majority of facilities, electricity consumption 
has been taken from units mentioned in electricity bills. For few facilities where electricity bills were unavailable, consumption was 
estimated based on a combination of calculating average units from available bills, and applying a unit/ square-feet rate derived from 
facilities with 100% bill coverage. Emission factors has been taken from the Central Electrical Authority (CEA’s) CO2 Baseline Database for 
the Indian Power Sector, Version 20
Independent reasonable assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 493)
8. 	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details.
	
In order to align with the net zero pathways suggested by the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the Bank 
has pledged to reduce GHG emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) from its operations to net zero by 2030. To achieve its 
net zero target, the Bank plans to migrate most of its facilities to renewable energy. In FY 2024-25, the Bank increased the 
share of renewable energy in its electricity mix from 12.31% in the previous year to 20.21%, resulting in approximately 7,446 
tCO2e in avoided emissions. Currently, three of the Bank’s offices (corporate office, YES BANK House, YES Fintech Center, 
Airoli and its office in R-Tech park, Goregaon), along with 50 of the Bank’s 78 Branches in Mumbai have been switched to 
renewables. The Bank also aims to reduce its energy consumption by enhancing energy efficiency. The Bank has completed 
its migration to light-emitting diode (LED) fixtures at all its facilities and is in the process of switching to star-rated air 
conditioners and equipment in all its offices.
1GRI 2-4
329
329
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9. 	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format1:
Parameter
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
4.74
2.47
E-waste (B)
46.05
55.35
Bio-medical waste (C)
0.017
0.014
Construction and demolition waste (D)
0
0
Battery waste (E)
43.55
23.30
Radioactive waste (F)
0
0
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
0.57
0.47
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any.  
(Break-up by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
388.95
343.90
	
Dry Waste
178.17
182.66
	
Wet Waste
210.78
161.24
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
483.87
425.51
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total	waste generated / Revenue from operations)
[MT / Revenue (` crore)]
0.0132
0.0130*
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total waste generated / Revenue from operations in in ` crore, adjusted for PPP)
[MT / Revenue (USD million)]
0.0272
0.0266*
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
NA
NA
Waste intensity [MT/ Full Time Employee (FTE)]
0.017
0.015
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or  
other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) 	
Recycled
	
Plastic Waste
0.97
0.51
	
E-Waste
39.27
51.76
	
Bio-Medical Waste
0.001
0.003
	
Battery Waste
39.00
22.85
	
Other hazardous waste (Oil Waste from DG sets)
0.21
0.06
	
Other non-hazardous waste
61.88
58.20
	
	
Dry
34.66
37.86
	
	
Wet
27.21
20.34
	
Total Waste Recycled
141.32
133.39
(ii) 	
Re-used
	
Plastic Waste
-
0.003
	
E-Waste
3.29
-
	
Battery Waste
0.47
-
	
Other non-hazardous waste
-
0.38
	
	
Dry
-
0.38
	
Total Waste Re-used
3.76
0.39
(iii) 	
Other recovery operations
-
-
	
Total Waste Recovered
145.08
133.78
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
1GRI 306-3, GRI 306-4, GRI 306-5
330
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Parameter
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Category of waste
(i) 	
Incineration
E-Waste
2.63
0.72
Bio-Medical Waste
0.009
0.006
Battery Waste
1.60
0.30
Other hazardous waste (Oil Waste from DG sets)
0.32
0.40
	
Total Waste Incinerated
4.57
1.43
(ii) 	
Landfilling
Plastic Waste
0.10
1.95
E-Waste
0.86
2.87
Bio-Medical Waste
0.007
0.006
Battery Waste
2.48
0.15
Other hazardous waste (Oil Waste from DG sets)
0.03
0.01
Other non-hazardous waste
10.07
285.31
	
Dry
9.91
144.42
	
Wet
0.15
140.89
Total Waste to Landfill
13.54
290.30
(iii) 	
Other disposal operations
Plastic Waste
3.68
-
Other non-hazardous waste
317.01
-
	
Dry
133.59
-
	
Wet
183.41
-
Total Other Disposal option
320.68
-
Total Waste to Disposal
338.79
291.73
*From FY 2024-25, as part of this disclosure, the Bank has begun reporting its revenue from operations in ‘` crore’. The Bank has also begun 
using the latest PPP conversion rate for India (INR 20.66/ international dollar for 2025 and INR 20.43/ international dollar for 2024), published 
by the International Monetary Fund, in accordance with the requirement of the BRSR-Core Reporting Standard, formulated by the Industry 
Standards Forum (notified through SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177, dated December 20, 2024). Both amendments 
mentioned have been applied retrospectively to the corresponding data points for FY 2023-24. Accordingly, “intensity per rupee of turnover” and 
“intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for (PPP)” figures for FY 2023-24 have been restated1.
•	
Plastic waste generated/ recycled/ disposed includes actual data from 5 major offices. Other non-hazardous waste generated/ 
recycled/ disposed, include actual data from 7 major offices (dry waste) and 2 major offices (wet waste). The Bank has also included 
estimated (generated/ disposed) data (plastic and other non-hazardous waste), for the remainder of its offices and branches, based on 
facility-wise headcount
•	
Bio-medical waste includes data from five major offices, YES BANK HOUSE (Santacruz), YES FINTECH (Airoli), NOC Chennai, NOC Gurugram 
and Max Tower Noida, which have an in-house medical center
•	
Other hazardous waste consists of residue oil from Diesel Generators
•	
For FY 2024-25, MT of waste recovered / total waste generated is 0.30 (0.31 for FY 2023-24). For FY 2024-25, MT of waste disposed / total 
waste generated is 0.70 (0.69 for FY 2023-24)
Independent reasonable assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 493)
10. 	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your 
company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to 
manage such wastes.
	
In line with its Environmental Management System, the Bank has instituted robust mechanisms for responsible 
collection, recycling, and disposal of its waste. The Bank has partnered Viagreen to recycle paper used at key facilities 
including its corporate office. YES BANK House is equipped with a composting unit and a zero liquid discharge facility to 
minimize the environmental impacts of its operations. The Bank has also appointed central vendors to collect, recycle and 
1GRI 2-4
331
331
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
responsibly dispose e-waste from all its facilities and to buy back its lead acid batteries used in its uninterruptible power 
supply (UPS) systems.
11. 	 If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental 
approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
Location of 
operations/offices
Type of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval / 
clearance are being complied with? (Y/N)
If no, the reasons thereof and 
corrective action taken, if any.
YES BANK does not have any operations or offices in or around ecologically sensitive areas
12. 	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year:
Name and brief 
details of project
EIA Notification No.
Date of notification
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency (Yes 
/ No)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain (Yes 
/ No)
Relevant Web link
YES BANK has not undertaken any projects requiring environmental impact assessments
13.	  Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and 
rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
	
Yes. YES BANK is in full compliance with all applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India
Specify the law / regulation 
/ guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details of the non-
compliance
Any fines / penalties / action taken by 
regulatory agencies such as pollution 
control boards or by courts
Corrective action taken, if any
NA
NA
Nil
Nil
B. 	
Leadership Indicators
1. 	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
	
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
	
(i) 	
Name of the area: Not Applicable
	
(ii) 	 Nature of operations: Not Applicable
	
(iii) 	 Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format: Not Applicable
Parameter
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) 	 Surface water
Not Applicable
(ii) 	 Groundwater
(iii) 	Third party water
(iv) 	Seawater / desalinated water
(v) 	 Others
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
332
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Parameter
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) 	 Into Surface water
Not Applicable
	
-	
No treatment
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(ii) 	 Into Groundwater
	
-	
No treatment
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(iii) 	Into Seawater
	
-	
No treatment
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(iv) 	Sent to third-parties
	
-	
No treatment
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(v) 	 Others
	
-	
No treatment
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
2. 	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format1:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year*
Total Scope 3 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, 
if available)
tCO2e
2,053,009.91
2,522,035.07
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
tCO2e / Revenue 
 (` Crore)
55.86
77.13
Total Scope 3 Emission Intensity
tCO2e / FTE
71.56
90.07
*From FY 2024-25, as part of this disclosure, the Bank has expanded the coverage and disclosure of its financed emissions (Category 15: 
Investments) to include the iron & steel manufacturing portfolio, in addition to cement manufacturing and electricity generation portfolio, covered 
in the previous year. The Bank has also begun reporting its turnover in ‘` crore’, and using the latest PPP conversion rate for India (INR 20.66/ 
international dollar for 2025 and INR 20.43/ international dollar for 2024), published by the International Monetary Fund, in accordance with 
the requirement of the BRSR-Core Reporting Standard, formulated by the Industry Standards Forum (notified through SEBI vide circular SEBI/
HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177, dated December 20, 2024). All three amendments mentioned have been applied retrospectively to the 
corresponding data points for FY 2023-24. Accordingly, figures for FY 2023-24 have been restated1.
•	
Scope 3 emissions include emissions under the following categories (reported as per GHG Protocol Corporate Standard). 
	
o	
Category 1: Purchased goods and services: includes only emission from paper (A4) consumption. Environmental impact estimates (for 
paper consumption) were made using the Environmental Paper Network Paper Calculator Version 4.0
	
o	
Category 2: Capital goods: includes only emission for laptops purchased in FY 2024-25. Emission factors have been taken from the 
websites of respective laptop manufacturers
	
o	
Category 3: Fuel-and energy-related emissions not included in scope 1 or scope 2: includes Well-to-Tank emissions for diesel and 
Transmission and Distribution losses from electricity consumption. Emission factors have been taken from the websites of the 
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), UK and the International Energy Agency (IEA)
	
o	
Category 5: Waste generated in operations: includes emissions from generated waste (dry waste, wet waste, plastic waste, 
hazardous, E-waste, and battery waste). Emission factors have been taken from the DEFRA website
	
o	
Category 6: Business travel: includes emissions from air travel. The emission factor for Business Travel have been taken from the 
‘Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories’ published by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), USA
1GRI 2-4, GRI 305-3
333
333
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
o	
Category 7: Employee commuting: includes emission from employee commute (to and from) their work locations. The emission 
factors for employee commute have been taken from India Specific Road Transport Emission Factors & India Specific Rail Transport 
Emission Factors for Passenger Travel and Material Transport by the India GHG programme. The emissions through daily employee 
commute have been estimated basis responses received through a primary pan-bank survey
	
o	
Category 8: Upstream leased assets: incudes emission from outsourced data centers and bank’s offsite ATMs. The emission factor 
for electricity consumption through data centers is taken from the Central Electrical Authority (CEA’s) CO2 Baseline Database for the 
Indian Power Sector, Version 20
	
o	
Category 15: Investments: Category 15: Investments: Financed Emission for FY 25: includes financed emissions from iron & 
steel manufacturing (991,066.51 tco2e), cement manufacturing portfolio (458,519.45 tCO2e) and electricity generation portfolio 
(543,955.50 tCO2e) covering corporate loans, investment and project finance. The Bank has utilized “PCAF (2022). The Global 
GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard Part A: Financed Emissions Second Edition” to estimate financed emission. Where client 
emission data are not available publicly, BANK has utilized “Central Electrical Authority (CEA’s) CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian 
Power Sector, Version 20” for emission intensity of electricity generation sector and utilized “PCAF Emission database, Source 
Exiobase Assets 2019 Region India” for emission intensity of iron and steel manufacturing sector. For cement manufacturing sector 
Bank has utilized “Climatiq data explorer version 13.13, Source: CBAM 2023 Region India” where production data is available and 
“PCAF Emission database, Source Exiobase Assets 2019 Region India” where no data is available for emission intensity of cement 
manufacturing sector. This year, the Bank has enhanced the scope for Category 15. Financed emission coverage has been increased 
to include iron & steel manufacturing portfolio, in addition to cement manufacturing and electricity generation portfolio covered in 
the previous year. The coverage has been applied retrospectively and emissions for iron & steel manufacturing sector have been 
estimated (7,53,509.53 tCO2) and included in the disclosure for FY 2023-24, to maintain parity
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
3. 	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide details 
of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation 
activities.
	
Not applicable
4. 	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource efficiency, 
or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the same as well as 
outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be 
provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
Use of renewable energy
Switched to sourcing renewable energy to power at 
the three of the Bank’s large offices and 50 out of 78 
the Branches in Mumbai
The Bank has increased the share of renewable energy 
in its electricity mix from 12.31% in the previous year 
to 20.21% in FY 2024-25, resulting in approximately 
7,446.86 tCO2e in avoided emissions
Enhanced energy efficiency
Replaced 1,364 tonnage of ACs in 93 Branches 
with energy efficient (star rated) Inverter ACs and 
migration to LED lighting
Migration to inverter ACs resulted in approximately 
23,63,929 MJ in energy savings in FY 2024-25
Green Building certification
Two of YES BANK’s large offices have been certified 
as Green Buildings
YES BANK House is Platinum certified and Delhi’s Okhala 
Office is Gold certified as per the Indian Green Building 
Council (IGBC) standard
Composting and Zero Liquid 
Discharge
At YES BANK House, the Bank has set up a 
vermicompost machine to treat wet waste and a 
zero liquid discharge facility to treat its sewage
YES BANK House produces zero waste to landfill and zero 
water discharge, as compost and treated water is used to 
maintain flora around the office
ISO 140001
Completed the 12 year of ISO 14001:2015 
certification for its Environmental Management 
System (EMS) covering 1,186 facilities
This is the highest number of facilities that have been 
certified as per ISO 14001, in the Banking financial 
services and Insurance sector, globally
334
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
5. 	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
	
The Bank acknowledges and recognizes the importance of ensuring resiliency in its business operations and maintaining the 
trust and confidence of its stakeholders, including customers, regulators, employees, and public at large. To minimize impact 
to its activities during disasters/disruptions, the Bank has put in place a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) for building resilience 
in its business operations. The plan is reviewed on an annual basis and the implementation of this plan is overseen by the 
Operational Risk Management Committee, chaired by the CRO. The Bank's business continuity plan is ISO 22301 certified.
	
The Bank also has a comprehensive disaster recovery plan, which aims to minimize the impact of disasters on its business 
and uphold its commitment to the bank’s customers, internal stakeholders, and employees. The disaster recovery plan also 
takes into consideration applicable internal policies as well regulatory requirements.
6. 	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or 
adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
	
Some large projects financed by the Bank generate carbon emissions, which if unmitigated or unchecked may contribute 
to increasing global warming. In FY 2021-22, YES BANK became the first Bank in India to measure and report financed 
emissions of its electricity generation portfolio (covering corporate loans, investment, project finance). The Bank is striving 
to further scale up the approach to measure and report its financed emissions from other climate intensive sectors. The Bank 
has undertaken targets to reduce the financed emissions intensity of its electricity generation portfolio. The Bank has also 
adopted an Environment and Social Policy which serves as a structured approach towards responsible lending. Through this 
policy, the Bank integrates environmental and social (E&S) risks into its overall credit risk assessment framework, which 
goes beyond financial risk mitigation. The policy encompasses all the lending transactions of the Bank integrating E&S 
considerations in its financing activities and establishes a risk-based approach where high value transactions that carry 
high ESG risks are subject to enhanced evaluation and approval through a specialised team of internal/ external E&S risk 
assessment experts.
7. 	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental 
impacts.
	
9.23% (Based on purchase by value)
	
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
8. 	
How many Green Credits have been generated or procured:
	
a. 	
By the listed entity: Nil
	
b. 	
By the top ten (in terms of value of purchases and sales, respectively) value chain partners: Nil
Principle 7:
Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is 
responsible and transparent
A. 	
Essential Indicators
1. 	
a. 	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations1.
	
	
YES BANK is affiliated to a number of trade and industry associations. Eight of its key affiliations are listed below 
(alphabetically)
	
b. 	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the 
entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
	
	
1. 	
Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM)
	
	
2. 	
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
	
	
3. 	
Forex Association of India (FAI)
	
	
4. 	
Foreign Exchange Dealer’s Association of India (FEDAI)
1GRI 2-28
335
335
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
	
5. 	
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI)
	
	
6. 	
Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association of India (FIMMDA)
	
	
7. 	
Indian Banks’ Association (IBA)
	
	
8. 	
National Association of Software and Service Companies (NASSCOM)
2. 	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, 
based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities1.
	
There are no such instances to report.
B. 	
Leadership Indicators
1. 	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
S. 
No.
Public Policy 
Advocated
Method resorted to for such advocacy
Whether 
information 
available in public 
domain (Yes/No)
Web link, if available
1
Boosting 
Sustainability in 
Indian Agriculture
•	
Collaborated with FICCI as Knowledge Partner for 
the Sustainable Agriculture Summit and Awards 
program 2024
•	
Launched A Compendium of Impactful Private Sector 
led Initiatives
Yes
https://www.yesbank.in/
beyond-banking/research/
food-and-agriculture
2
Supporting the 
transformation of 
India’s Maize Sector
•	
Collaborated with FICCI as Knowledge Partner for 
the 10th India Maize summit 2024
•	
Launched a knowledge report on Trends, Challenges 
& Imperatives for Sustainable Growth
Yes
https://www.yesbank.in/
beyond-banking/research/
food-and-agriculture
3
Making India the 
Global Food Hub
•	
Collaborated with The American Chamber of 
Commerce in India (AMCHAM India) as Knowledge 
Partner for the Conference on Food Security 
Sustainable & Resilient Agri & Food Systems
•	
Launched a knowledge report on Making India the 
Global Food Hub – Key Imperatives
Yes
https://www.yesbank.in/
beyond-banking/research/
food-and-agriculture
https://amchamindia.
com/wp-content/up-
loads/2024/07/Amcham-
YBL-Report-Making-India-
the-Global-food-Hub.pdf
4
Promoting 
innovations 
in India’s 
Micronutrients 
Industry
•	
Collaborated with the Indian Micro Fertilizers 
Manufacturers Association as a Knowledge Partner 
for the 5th Edition of the National Crop Nutrition 
Summit & B2B Conclave
Yes
https://www.yesbank.in/
beyond-banking/research/
food-and-agriculture
5
Promoting Agri 
Exports from 
Meghalaya
•	
Collaborated with The Agricultural and Processed 
Food Products Export Development Authority 
(APEDA) as Knowledge Partner for the International 
Buyer Seller Meet for Boosting Agricultural Products 
of Meghalaya
Yes
https://www.yesbank.in/
beyond-banking/research/
food-and-agriculture
6
Supporting Non-
Timber Forest 
Produce
•	
Collaborated with the Shellac and Forest Products 
Export Promotion Council (SHEFEXIL), the 
Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) and 
Government of Maharashtra for the Non-Timber 
Forest Produce Export Outreach Program
No
1GRI 206-1
336
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
S. 
No.
Public Policy 
Advocated
Method resorted to for such advocacy
Whether 
information 
available in public 
domain (Yes/No)
Web link, if available
7
Supporting India’s 
Spice exports
•	
Participated as a Knowledge Partner, in a ‘Chintan 
Shivir’ with the Spices Board (Ministry of Commerce 
and Industry, Government of India) for deliberating 
on value addition opportunities and framing of Vision 
2047 for India’s Spice Exports
No
8
Transition to Zero 
Emission Vehicles
•	
Collaborated with FICCI to prepare a knowledge 
report on ‘Driving India’s ZEV Transition: From Center 
to State’
Yes
https://www.yesbank.in/
pdf?name=yesbank_ficci.pdf
Principle 8:
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
A. 	
Essential Indicators
1. 	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year.
Name and brief 
details of project
SIA Notification No.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes / No)
Results communicated in 
public domain (Yes / No)
Relevant Web link
YES BANK did not undertake any Social Impact Assessments (SIA) in the current financial year
2. 	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your 
entity, in the following format:
Name of Project for which 
R&R is ongoing
State
District
No. of Project Affected 
Families (PAFs)
% of PAFs covered 
by R&R
Amounts paid to PAFs in the 
FY (In INR)
YES BANK has not undertaken any projects requiring Rehabilitation and Resettlement
3. 	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
Members of the community can report their grievance, if any, to the Branch Manager of their nearest YES BANK branch 
or the Infrastructure and Facilities Management (IFM) team at the nearest YES BANK office. Community grievances are 
registered and resolved through the Bank’s internal helpdesk system.
4. 	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers1:
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
12.70%
14.53%*
Directly from within India
100%
100%
*In FY 2024-25, the Bank amended its methodology for calculating “input material”, in line with the definition of “total purchases” provided in 
the BRSR-Core Reporting Standard, formulated by the Industry Standards Forum (notified through SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-
1/P/CIR/2024/177, dated December 20, 2024). Total purchases now includes all payments routed through the organization’s vendor payment 
processing systems, along with the net change in unprocessed claims between the beginning and end of each financial year. The amendments 
have been applied retrospectively to the corresponding data points for FY 2023-24. Accordingly, the “percentage of input material (inputs to total 
inputs by value) directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers” for FY 2023-24 has been restated1.
Independent reasonable assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 493)
1GRI 2-4, GRI 204-1
337
337
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5. 	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed on 
a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year*
Rural
1.18%
1.26%
Semi-urban
4.65%
5.53%
Urban
20.10%
17.94%
Metropolitan
74.07%
75.27%
*In FY 2024-25, the Bank amended its methodology for computing “wages” in line with the definition of “wages” provided in the BRSR-Core 
Reporting Standard, formulated by the Industry Standards Forum (notified through SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177, 
dated December 20, 2024). The amendments have been applied retrospectively to the corresponding data points for FY 2023-24. Accordingly, 
figures for FY 2023-24 have been restated1.
Independent reasonable assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 493)
B. 	
Leadership Indicators
1. 	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments 
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
YES BANK did not undertake any Social Impact Assessments (SIA) in the current financial year
2. 	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as 
identified by government bodies:
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (In INR)
Rajasthan
Karauli
1,29,26,501
Rajasthan
Dholpur
1,08,72,132
Bihar
Gaya
10,20,000
Jharkhand
Hazaribagh, Chatra
8,16,000
Gujarat
Dahod
1,13,43,552
Madhya Pradesh
Barwani
1,81,28,760
Uttarakhand
Haridwar
2,74,871
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
3. 	
(a) 	 Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalize/ vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
	
	
No. The Bank does not have a formalized policy for preferential treatment for marginalized/ vulnerable groups, it 
continues to support such vendors.
	
(b) 	 From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
      	 	
Not Applicable
	
(c) 	 What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
      	 	
Not Applicable
4.	
 Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the 
current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
	
YES BANK does not own, nor has the Bank acquired any intellectual property based on traditional knowledge.
1GRI 2-4
338
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Intellectual Property based on 
traditional knowledge
Owned/ Acquired (Yes/No)
Benefit shared (Yes / No)
Basis of calculating 
benefit share
Not Applicable
5. 	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes 
wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable
6. 	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
CSR Project
No. of persons benefitted from CSR Projects
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable and marginalized groups
Employability
 5,000 youth
100
Entrepreneurship
15,000 farmers and women
100
Environment Sustainability 100 MSMEs
-
2,00,000 trees planted on the land of 307 farmers
60
Independent limited assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 502)
Principle 9:
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
A. 	
Essential Indicators
1. 	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
YES BANK has a Board approved Grievance Redressal Policy which is available on its website. The Bank has instituted a 
3-Level Grievance Redressal Mechanism. Customers can visit the Bank’s Branch, contact its call center or write to yestouch@
yesbank.in, for any query, request or complaint. To ensure timely resolution of customer complaints, all complaints are 
logged into the Bank’s Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system and each CRM issue type is assigned a system 
defined turnaround time. As mandated by the Reserve Bank of India, YES BANK has implemented a mechanism of 
Internal Ombudsman who is charged with independently reviewing any customer complaints which are fully or partially 
denied by the Bank.
	
On the wholesale side, the Bank has a comprehensive service infrastructure for its corporate clients. In addition to 
relationship and product sales teams, corporate servicing is focussed through:
	
• 	
Corporate Service Delivery (CSD) Branches which take care of operations and in person contact based services
	
• 	
Priority Service Relationship Managers (PSRM) who are allocated to high transactions, business volume customers, as 
a single point of contact, access and attention
	
• 	
The Bank also has a dedicated email ID and Virtual Contact Centre for receiving, record keeping and resolving customer 
service issues. All customer service issues are tracked and monitored for suitable redressal with due oversight from 
the Bank’s senior management
2. 	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about1:
Particulars
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
Not Applicable*
Safe and responsible usage
100%#
Recycling and/or safe disposal
Not Applicable^
*Given the Bank’s nature of business as a service sector enterprise and a financial institution, the Bank does not offer products, required to 
carry information about environmental and social parameters. The Bank however, undertakes various initiatives to integrate environmental 
parameters into its customer-facing processes and operations:
1GRI 417-1
339
339
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. 	
The Bank has adopted an Environment and Social Policy (ESP) which serves as a structured approach towards responsible lending. The ESP 
is an integral part of the Bank’s Environment and Social Risk Management System (ESMS) which sets out the overarching framework for 
identification and management of potential and/ or existing environment and social (E&S) risks commensurate with the nature and scale of 
transactions and their potential impacts. Through this policy, the Bank integrates environmental and social risks into its overall credit risk 
assessment framework.
2. 	
The Bank also undertakes a number of initiatives to promote the adoption digital and paperless banking in order to minimize the 
environmental impact of its services, such as:
	
•	
Promoting the use of digital/ online statements in order to save paper
	
•	
Offering virtual credit cards to save plastic
	
•	
Relationship Managers are encouraged to disseminate marketing collaterals to customers in digital formats such as, short videos, 
images, GIFs that can be conveniently shared and consumed
	
•	
Introduction of in-app statement generation to reduce the requirement of printed statements
	
•	
Digitization of account opening processes to reduce documentation
	
•	
Regular review and migration of service requests to online channels, i.e. Internet Banking, Mobile Banking, etc.
	
•	
Replacing physical standees at branches and corporate offices with digital screens
#YES BANK ensures that customers are well informed and educated on the safe and responsible ways to use its products and services
•	
The Bank has set up a dedicated “Secure Banking” section on its website to educate customers on the safe and secure ways of using digital 
payments/ channels
•	
The Bank also sends periodic advisories via email or SMS to inform customers on safety practices
•	
The Bank undertakes periodic campaigns designed to spread awareness about cybersecurity and which are extensively promoted through 
online and offline channels, social media platforms, D2C emailers, YES TV in branches as well as on residential display properties
•	
The Bank provides customers with complete information about the Bank’s products, including terms and conditions; schedule of charges 
applicable for various products/ services; channels through which services are rendered including branch lists/ online channels; provision 
for applying to various products online; and grievance redressal mechanisms available for customers
•	
Rural customers are informed about responsible practices in loan usage and repayment
^Given the Bank’s nature of business as a service sector enterprise and a financial institution, the Bank does not offer products which carry 
information about recycling and safe disposal
3. 	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
Particulars
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Data privacy
28
2
-
27
2
-
Advertising
0
0
-
0
0
-
Cyber-security
0
0
-
0
0
-
Delivery of essential services
0
0
-
0
0
-
Restrictive Trade Practices
0
0
-
0
0
-
Unfair Trade Practices
21
0
Sales related
41
0
Sales related
Other
2,01,269
9,124
General 
Grievances
56,384
1,501
General 
Grievances
Top five grounds of complaints received by the bank from customers basis the broad categorisation shared by RBI include – complaints 
relating to Internet/ Mobile/ Electronic Banking; ATM/Debit Cards; Loans and advances; Credit Cards; Account opening/difficulty in operation of 
accounts; Others.
4. 	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
NA
Forced recalls
340
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
5. 	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide 
a web-link of the policy.
	
Yes. The Bank has also instituted an Information Security Policy and Cyber Security Policy which are aligned to the ISO 
27001:2022 standard on Information Security Management System, and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard. 
The Bank’s performance against its information security policies and their compliance with statutory requirements are 
reviewed by the Executive-level Security Council and the Board on an annual basis. In FY 2024-25, the implementation of 
the Bank’s Information Security Policies was independently audited for its adherence to the ISO 27001:2022 Information 
Security Management System by BSI Group India Pvt. ltd.
	
The Bank’s Data Privacy policy, is based on the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) guidelines, and has been defined 
for the businesses dealing with European customers.
6. 	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential 
services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action 
taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
	
Not applicable.
7. 	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
	
a. 	
Number of instances of data breaches – Nil
	
b. 	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers – Nil
	
c. 	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches – Nil
Independent reasonable assurance for the above disclosure has been carried out by BSI Group India Private Limited. For the 
Independent Assurance Statement, please refer to page 493)
B. 	
Leadership Indicators
1. 	
Channels/ platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if 
available).
	
All information pertaining to the Bank, its products and services can be accessed on its website https://www.yesbank.in/
2. 	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
	
YES BANK ensures that customers are well informed and educated on the safe and responsible ways to use its 
products and services
	
•	
The Bank has set up a dedicated “Secure Banking” section on its website to educate customers on the safe and secure 
ways of using digital payments/ channels
	
•	
The Bank also sends periodic advisories via email or SMS to inform customers on safety practices
	
•	
The Bank undertakes periodic campaigns designed to spread awareness about cybersecurity and which are extensively 
promoted through online and offline channels, social media platforms, D2C emailers, YES TV in branches as well as on 
residential display properties
	
•	
The Bank provides customers with complete information about the Bank’s products, including terms and conditions; 
schedule of charges applicable for various products/ services; channels through which services are rendered including 
branch lists/ online channels; provision for applying to various products online; and grievance redressal mechanisms 
available for customers
	
•	
The Bank uses Direct-to-Consumer mailers, YES TV in branches as well as on residential display properties are utilized 
to raise awareness on responsible usage of financial services
	
•	
Rural customers are informed about responsible practices in loan usage and repayment
	
•	
In FY 2024-25, the Bank undertook 71+ integrated marketing communications to raise awareness on cyber security, 
fraud awareness and financial literacy, Digital Payment Awareness Week, amongst other topics
341
341
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 000-000
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
PG 172-341
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. 	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
	
Disruption in services of the Bank (planned and unplanned) has the potential to affect customer experience and cause 
grave reputational damage. Keeping this in view, the Bank’s Corporate Communication is entrusted with the responsibility 
of coordinating the Bank’s communication strategy, during such disruptions, based on the severity of the situation. 
Appended below, are some steps taken by the Corporate Communication team to mitigate the risk that could arise as a 
result of service disruptions.
	
Unplanned/Planned Downtimes: In case of a downtime, the Bank’s Corporate Communication team works with the Bank’s 
Business and Digital Technology Solutions Group (BDTS) team to assess the cause of the disruption in order to prepare a 
clear communication for customers informing them about the issue and providing them a fair idea of the time that would be 
required to restore normalcy. The communication is disseminated to customers in the following ways:
	
•	
Press Release: The Bank may issue a brief press release on the downtime, impacted services, services that remain 
intact, as well as the time required to restore normalcy
	
•	
Social Media: The Bank may publish a notification on its social media handles, informing customers about the disruption, 
services impacted and time required to restore normalcy
	
•	
Online Reputation Management (ORM): The Bank’s ORM team responds to customer queries, escalations on social 
media, emails and telephonic conversations
	
•	
WhatsApp/SMS: The Bank also channels such as WhatsApp and SMS’ to share critical information about such 
disruptions with customers
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/
Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction 
relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a 
whole? (Yes/No)
	
Yes. The Bank provides its customers with complete and comprehensive information about its products and services, including:
	
•	
Detailed terms and conditions
	
•	
Schedule of charges applicable for various products and services
	
•	
Channels through which services are rendered including list of branches and online channels
	
•	
Mechanisms for accessing various products and services, online
	
•	
Grievance redressal mechanisms available to customers
	
Yes. The Bank has a robust Customer Experience Framework wherein the Bank’s Customer Experience unit captures the 
Voice of the Customer (VOC) and Customer Scoring through transaction and engagement feedback, utilising digital platforms, 
and assessing performance across key service drivers. The Bank’s measures its Net Promoter score (NPS), which is a metric 
for measuring customer experience and is a predictor of customer loyalty, across channels like Branch Banking, Digital 
channels, Call Centers, Relationship Managers, amongst others, and customer insights, therein are shared with teams 
across the Bank.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
342
YES BANK LIMITED
To the Members of
YES BANK Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements
Opinion
We have audited the standalone financial statements of YES 
BANK Limited (‘the Bank’), which comprise the Balance Sheet 
as at March 31, 2025, the Profit and Loss Account and the 
Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended, and notes to 
the standalone financial statements, including a summary 
of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information 
(hereinafter 
referred 
to 
as 
“Standalone 
Financial Statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone 
financial statements give the information required by the 
section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as well as the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) and circulars and guidelines 
issued by the Reserve Bank of India, in the manner so required 
for banking companies and give a true and fair view in 
conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted 
in India, including the Accounting Standards prescribed under 
section 133 of the Act, read with Companies (Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2021 as amended to the extent applicable, 
of the state of affairs of the Bank as at March 31, 2025, and 
its profit, and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Independent Auditors’ Report
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on 
Auditing (‘SAs’) specified under Section 143 (10) of the Act. 
Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in 
the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements’ section of our report. We are 
independent of the Bank in accordance with the Code of Ethics 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘the 
ICAI’) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant 
to our audit of the standalone financial statements under 
the provisions of the Act, and the Rules thereunder, and we 
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe 
that the audit evidence we have obtained, is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on the 
standalone financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the 
standalone financial statements of the current year. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit 
of the standalone financial statements as a whole, and 
in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. We have determined the 
matters described below to be the key audit matters to be 
communicated in our report:
Key Audit Matters
Auditor’s Response
Identification, classification and provisioning of non-performing advances (NPA)
Refer to schedule 9, read with relevant Notes relating to provisions 
and contingencies, disclosures with regard Asset Quality in respect of 
movement of Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) and related provisions 
respectively.
As required under prudential norms on Income Recognition and Asset 
Classification and Provisioning related to Advances read with relevant 
circulars, notifications and directives issued by the Reserve Bank of 
India (RBI) in respect of identification, classification and provisioning on 
such NPAs, which were collectively considered by the Bank till March 
31, 2025, identifies and classifies NPA advances into Sub-standard, 
Doubtful and Loss and makes appropriate provisions.
The Bank, as per its governing framework, made NPA provisions 
based on Management’s assessment of the degree of impairment of 
the advances subject to and guided by minimum provisioning levels 
prescribed under RBI guidelines.
Our audit approach included testing the design, operating effectiveness 
of internal controls and substantive audit procedures in respect of 
identification, classification and provisioning of NPA In particular:
	
Evaluated the Bank’s internal control system in adhering to the 
relevant RBI guidelines regarding identification, classification 
and provisioning of NPA;
	
Tested key IT systems/ applications used and their design and 
implementation as well as operational effectiveness of relevant 
controls, including involvement of manual process and manual 
controls in relation to identification and classification viz., sub-
standard, doubtful and loss with reference to their days-past-
due (DPD) status and provisioning pertaining to NPA;
343
343
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Key Audit Matters
Auditor’s Response
The identification, classification and provisioning of NPAs has been 
identified is a Key Audit Matter as the Bank has significant credit 
risk exposure to a large number of borrowers across various sectors, 
products, industries and geographies and there is a high degree of 
complexity, uncertainty and judgment involved in recoverability of 
advances, nature of transactions and estimation of provisions thereon 
and identification of accounts to be written off.
	
Test checked advances to examine the validity of the recorded 
amounts, loan documentation, examined the statement of 
accounts, indicators of impairment, impairment provision for 
non-performing assets, and compliance with asset classification 
and provisioning pertaining to advances.
	
Testing of controls for computation of provision of NPA and its 
compliance with board approved policy and RBI regulations.
	
Undertaken the walkthrough for the automated E-NPA 
system and tested the core functionality for selected samples 
considering the audit universe.
	
Re-performed, for a sample of retail and corporate portfolios, 
as part of our substantive audit procedures the calculation of 
provisions, to determine the accuracy of the same;
	
Assessed the adequacy of disclosures against the RBI 
regulations.
Information Technology (IT) Systems and General Controls
The Bank’s key financial accounting and reporting processes are 
highly dependent on Core Banking and Treasury Solutions and 
other supporting software and hardware controls. The volume of 
transactions processed and recorded is huge and hence the IT controls 
are required to ensure that applications process data as expected 
and that changes are made in an appropriate manner. The Bank’s IT 
control framework includes automated, semi-automated and manual 
controls designed to address identified risks. IT controls are stated in 
Entity Level Controls (ELC), IT General Controls (ITGC) and IT Application 
Controls (ITAC). Such controls contribute to risk mitigation of erroneous 
output data.
We have identified IT Controls Framework as a Key Audit Matter 
as the Bank’s business is highly dependent on technology. The IT 
environment is complex and the design and operating effectiveness 
of IT controls have a direct impact on its financial reporting process. 
Such controls provide assurance on the integrity and completeness of 
data processed through various IT applications which are used for the 
preparation of financial reports.
Our audit approach/procedures included the following:
	
We have planned, designed and carried out the desired audit 
procedures and sample checked, taking into consideration the IT 
systems of the Bank.
	
Assessment and identification of key IT applications including 
those identified by the management for audit trail (audit log) 
further verifying, testing, and reviewing the design and operating 
effectiveness of the IT system based on reports and other 
financial and non-financial information generated from the 
system on a test check basis.
	
Gaining understanding of IT controls framework through 
Walkthrough of processes. We also discussed and referred to 
reports of internal auditors, Internal Financial Control and other 
assurance functions in carrying out our audit procedures.
	
The IT audit specialists (who are integral part of audit team) have 
carried out testing of effectiveness of general and application 
controls.
	
We also tested key automated and manual business cycle 
controls and logic for system generated reports relevant to the 
audit; including testing of compensating controls or performed 
alternate procedures to assess whether there were any 
unaddressed IT risks that would materially impact the Financial 
Statements.
	
In ITGC testing, on sample basis, we reviewed control areas 
such as User Management, Change Management, Physical & 
Environmental Security, Creation and maintenance of edit logs, 
Backup and Restoration etc.
We have also carried out other audit procedures like substantive 
testing, analytical procedures etc. to verify the accuracy of the data 
generated from the IT system.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
344
YES BANK LIMITED
Information other than the standalone financial statements 
and Auditor’s Report thereon
The Bank’s Management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the Other Information. The other information 
comprises the Management Discussion and Analysis, 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report, Directors’ 
Report forming part of the Annual Report, but does not include 
the Standalone Financial Statements, Consolidated Financial 
Statements and our auditor’s report thereon and the Pillar 
III Disclosures under Basel III Capital Regulation, Leverage 
Ratio, Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio. 
The Annual Report is expected to be made available to us after 
the date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not 
cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the Other Information 
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing 
so, consider whether the Other Information is materially 
inconsistent with the standalone financial statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated.
When we read the other information, if we conclude that 
there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to 
communicate the matter to those charged with governance.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with 
Governance for the Standalone Financial Statements
The Bank’s management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the 
Act with respect to the preparation and presentation of these 
standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view 
of the financial position, financial performance and cash flows 
of the Bank in accordance with the accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act read with Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 as amended to the extent 
applicable, provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949 and the circulars and guidelines issued by Reserve 
Bank of India (‘RBI’) from time to time, as applicable to the Bank. 
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act and the RBI Guidelines for safeguarding of the assets 
of the Bank and for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; selection of the appropriate accounting 
software for ensuring compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations including those related to retention of audit logs 
and application of appropriate accounting policies; making 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the 
standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view 
and are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the 
Management and Board of Directors are responsible for 
assessing the Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board 
of Directors either intends to liquidate the Bank or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing 
the Bank’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the standalone financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an Auditor’s Report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone 
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the standalone financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control.
	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
345
345
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing 
our opinion on whether the bank has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures in the standalone financial statements 
made by the Management and Board of Directors.
	
Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management 
and Board of Director’s use of the going concern basis 
of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Bank’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our Auditor’s Report to the related 
disclosures in the standalone financial statements or, if 
such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. 
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained 
up to the date of our Auditor’s Report. However, future 
events or conditions may cause the Bank to cease to 
continue as a going concern.
	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the standalone financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the standalone financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify 
during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the standalone financial statements 
of the current year and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law 
or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or 
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a 
matter should not be communicated in our report because 
the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably 
be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of 
such communication.
Other Matter
The Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2024, have been audited by one of the predecessor 
auditors Chokshi & Chokshi LLP and continuing joint statutory 
auditors G. M. Kapadia & Co., whose report dated April 27, 
2024 had expressed an unmodified opinion. The above report 
has been furnished to us by the management and has been 
relied upon by us for the purpose of our audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
1)	
The balance sheet and the profit and loss account 
have been drawn up in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 
and Section 133 of the Act and relevant rules 
issued thereunder.
2)	
As required by sub-section (3) of Section 30 of the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, we report that:
	
(a)	
we have obtained all the information and 
explanations which, to the best of our knowledge 
and belief, were necessary for the purpose of our 
audit and have found them to be satisfactory;
	
(b)	
the transactions of the Bank, which have come 
to our notice, have been within the powers 
of the Bank; and
	
(c)	
The Bank considers its key operations, with the key 
applications largely integrated to the Core Banking 
System, it does not require its branches to submit 
any financial returns. Accordingly, our audit is 
carried out centrally based on the records and data 
made available to us at Head Office. During the 
course of our audit, we have visited and performed 
select relevant procedures at 62 branches; and
	
(d)	
The profit and loss account shows a true balance of 
profit for the year then ended
3)	
 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
	
(a)	
we have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
346
YES BANK LIMITED
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purposes of our audit;
	
(b)	
in our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law have been kept by the Bank so far as it 
appears from our examination of those books;
	
(c)	
the standalone balance sheet, the standalone 
profit and loss account, and the standalone cash 
flow statement dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account;
	
(d)	
in our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act, read with 
Companies (Accounting Standard) Rules, 2021, as 
amended, to the extent they are not inconsistent 
with the accounting policies prescribed by RBI;
	
(e)	
on the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors as on March 31,  2025 taken 
on record by the Board of Directors, none of the 
directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from 
being appointed as a director in terms of Section 
164 (2) of the Act; and
	
(f)	
with respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements of the Bank and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
Report in ‘Annexure A’.
4)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as 
amended in our opinion and to the best of our knowledge 
and belief and according to the information and 
explanations given to us:
	
(a)	
the Bank has disclosed the impact of pending 
litigations as at March 31, 2025 on its financial 
position in its standalone financial statements 
- Refer Note No. 17.5.11 and 17.5.80 to the 
standalone financial statements;
	
(b)	
the Bank has made provision, as required under 
the applicable law or accounting standards, for 
material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts - Refer 
Note No. 17.5.74 read with Note No. 17.5.19 to the 
standalone financial statements;
	
(c)	
there has been no delay in transferring amounts, 
required to be transferred, to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund by the Bank during the year 
ended March 31, 2025 - Refer Note No. 17.5.64 to 
the standalone financial statements.
	
(d)	
(i) 	
The management of the Bank has represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, 
other than as disclosed in the notes to 
accounts (Refer Note No. 17.5.36), no funds 
have been advanced or loaned or invested 
(either from borrowed funds or share premium 
or any other sources or kind of funds) by the 
Bank to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), 
with the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified in 
any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Bank (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
(ii) 	 The management of the Bank has represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, 
other than as disclosed in the notes to accounts 
(Refer Note No. 17.5.36) no funds have been 
received by the Bank from any person(s) or 
entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Funding 
Parties”), with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, the Bank 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
	
	
(iii)	 Based on such audit procedures that were 
considered reasonable and appropriate in 
the circumstances, nothing has come to our 
notice that has caused us to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) 
above contain any material misstatement.
	
(e)	
No dividend has been declared or paid during the 
year by the Bank.
	
(f)	
Based on our examination which included test 
checks, the Bank has used accounting software for 
maintaining its books of account which, along with 
347
347
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
access management tools, as applicable, have a 
feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and 
the same has operated throughout the year for all 
relevant transactions recorded in the respective 
software. Further, during the course of our audit 
we did not come across any instance of audit trail 
feature being tampered with. Additionally, the 
audit trail been preserved by the bank as per the 
statutory requirements for record retention
5)	
With respect to the matter to be included in the Auditors’ 
Report under section 197(16) of the Act; the Bank is a 
banking company as defined under Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949. Accordingly, the requirements prescribed 
under Section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘act’) 
do not apply by virtue of Section 35B(2A) of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949.
For G.M. Kapadia & Co.
Chartered Accountants
(Registration No. 104767W)
For C N K & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Registration No. 101961W/ W100036)
Atul Shah
Partner
(Membership No. 039569)
UDIN: 25039569BMLNBR6268
Suresh Agaskar
Partner
(Membership No. 110321)
UDIN: 25110321BMKWGX7002
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
348
YES BANK LIMITED
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to 
the aforesaid standalone financial statements under Clause 
(i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 
2013 (“the Act”)
Opinion
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements of YES BANK Limited (“the 
Bank”) as of March 31, 2025 in conjunction with our audit of 
the standalone financial statements of the Bank for the year 
ended on that date.
In our opinion, the Bank has maintained, in all material 
respects, an adequate internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements and such internal financial 
controls were operating effectively as at March 31, 2025, with 
reference to financial statements criteria established by the 
Bank considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial 
Controls
The Bank’s management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial statements 
the criteria established by the Bank considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on 
Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
(‘the Guidance Note’) issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (‘the ICAI’). These responsibilities include 
the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to the Bank’s policies, the safeguarding of 
its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 
and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as 
required under the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”).
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Bank’s 
internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our 
audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards 
Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report 
of even date on the standalone financial statements of YES BANK Limited for the year ended 
March 31, 2025
(Referred to in paragraph 3(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ in the Independent Auditor’s Report 
of even date to the members of YES BANK Limited on the standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025)
on Auditing (‘the Standards’), issued by the ICAI and deemed 
to be, prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the 
extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls over 
financial reporting, both issued by the ICAI. Those Standards 
and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical 
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
were established and maintained and whether such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements and their operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements included 
obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements, assessing 
the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal 
control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected 
depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone 
financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Bank’s internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference 
to Financial Statements
A Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of standalone financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A Bank’s internal financial 
control with reference to financial statement includes those 
policies and procedures that
1)	
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the Bank;
349
349
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2)	
provide 
reasonable 
assurance 
that 
transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of 
standalone financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles, and that 
receipts and expenditures of the Bank are being made 
only in accordance with authorisations of management 
and directors of the Bank; and
3)	
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, 
or disposition of the Bank’s assets that could have a 
material effect on the standalone financial statements.
For G.M. Kapadia & Co.
Chartered Accountants
(Registration No. 104767W)
For C N K & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Registration No. 101961W/ W100036)
Atul Shah
Partner
(Membership No. 039569)
UDIN: 25039569BMLNBR6268
Suresh Agaskar
Partner
(Membership No. 110321)
UDIN: 25110321BMKWGX7002
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial statements, 
including the possibility of collusion or improper management 
override of controls, material misstatements due to error or 
fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements to future periods are subject 
to the risk that the internal financial control with reference 
to standalone financial statement may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of 
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
350
YES BANK LIMITED
Standalone Balance Sheet
as on March 31 2025
(` in thousands)
Schedule
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital
1 
 62,708,231 
 57,535,764 
Share Warrants Subscription Money
Note 17.5.2
 - 
 9,483,918 
Reserves and surplus
2 
 415,092,308 
 354,434,232 
Deposits
3 
 2,845,251,333 
 2,663,721,717 
Borrowings
4 
 716,029,679 
 799,408,803 
Other liabilities and provisions
5 
 195,141,452 
 170,345,465 
TOTAL 
 4,234,223,003 
 4,054,929,899 
ASSETS
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India
6 
 152,601,325 
 181,392,387 
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice
7 
 127,988,998 
 7,904,007 
Investments
8 
 851,044,827 
 902,351,322 
Advances
9 
 2,461,884,690 
 2,277,994,720 
Fixed assets
10 
 30,654,248 
 28,565,218 
Other assets
11 
 610,048,915 
 656,722,245 
TOTAL
 4,234,223,003 
 4,054,929,899 
Contingent liabilities
12 
 11,902,359,809 
 7,969,572,249 
Bills for collection
 88,804,234 
153,682,865 
Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to Accounts forming part of financial 
statements
17 
The Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Balance Sheet.
The Balance Sheet has been prepared in conformity with Form A of the Third Schedule to the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
As per our report of even date attached.
For G. M. Kapadia & Co.
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 104767W
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
YES BANK Limited
CIN: L65190MH2003PLC143249
Atul Shah 
Partner
Membership No:  039569
Rama Subramaniam Gandhi 
Chairman
(DIN: 03341633)
Sanjay Khemani 
Director
(DIN: 00072812)
Prashant Kumar 
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN: 07562475)
For C N K & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 101961W/W100036
Suresh Agaskar
Partner 
Membership No: 110321
Rajan Pental
Executive Director 
(DIN: 08432870)
Manish Jain
Executive Director
(DIN: 10774800)
Niranjan Banodkar
Chief Financial Officer
Mumbai 
April 19, 2025
Sanjay Abhyankar
Company Secretary
351
351
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Standalone Profit & Loss Account
for the year ended March 31 2025
(` in thousands)
Schedule
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
I.
INCOME
Interest earned
13 
308,949,101 
275,859,383 
Other income
14 
58,568,631 
51,142,988 
TOTAL 
367,517,732 
327,002,371 
II.
EXPENDITURE
Interest expended
15 
219,505,639 
194,913,182 
Operating expenses
16 
105,472,578 
98,226,576 
Provisions and contingencies
Note 17.5.12
18,480,923 
21,351,818 
TOTAL
343,459,140 
314,491,576 
III.
PROFIT/(LOSS)
Net profit/(loss) for the year
24,058,592 
12,510,795 
Profit/(loss) brought forward
(91,049,750)
 (100,519,740)
TOTAL
(66,991,158)
(88,008,945)
IV.
APPROPRIATIONS
Transfer to Statutory Reserve
 6,014,648 
 3,127,699 
Transfer to Capital Reserve
 421,004 
262,640 
Transfer to Investment Reserve
 - 
 431,921 
Transfer to Investment Fluctuation Reserve
 2,557,271 
 472,297 
Transfer to Revenue and other Reserves
Note 17.5.9
 (19,388)
 (1,253,752)
Dividend paid
 - 
 - 
Balance carried over to balance sheet
(75,964,693)
(91,049,750)
TOTAL
(66,991,158)
(88,008,945)
Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to Accounts forming part of 
financial statements
17 
Earnings per share
Note 17.5.41
   	
Basic (`) 
 0.77 
 0.44 
	
Diluted (`)  
 0.77 
 0.43 
(Face value of each equity share is ` 2/-)
The Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Profit and Loss Account
The Profit and Loss Account has been prepared in conformity with Form B of the Third Schedule to the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
As per our report of even date attached.
For G. M. Kapadia & Co.
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 104767W
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
YES BANK Limited
CIN: L65190MH2003PLC143249
Atul Shah 
Partner
Membership No:  039569
Rama Subramaniam Gandhi 
Chairman
(DIN: 03341633)
Sanjay Khemani 
Director
(DIN: 00072812)
Prashant Kumar 
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN: 07562475)
For C N K & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 101961W/W100036
Suresh Agaskar
Partner 
Membership No: 110321
Rajan Pental
Executive Director 
(DIN: 08432870)
Manish Jain
Executive Director
(DIN: 10774800)
Niranjan Banodkar
Chief Financial Officer
Mumbai 
April 19, 2025
Sanjay Abhyankar
Company Secretary
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
352
YES BANK LIMITED
Standalone cash flow statement
for the year ended March 31, 2025
 (` in thousands)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Cash flow from/(used in) Operating Activities
Net profit before taxes
 31,683,455 
 14,999,782 
Adjustment for
ESOP Compensation Expense
 675,765 
 312,565 
Depreciation for the year
 4,869,199 
 5,410,402 
Amortization of premium on investments
 (2,937,130)
 4,105,944 
Provision / revaluation for investments
 (3,852,248)
 351,771 
Provision for standard advances
 (1,790,309)
 (1,011,477)
Provision/write off of non performing advances
 33,781,166 
 27,642,686 
Other provisions
 1,233,459 
 942,849 
Difference of purchase consideration and value of net assets acquired charged off to 
P&L (Refer note 17.5.77)
 - 
 9,650 
(Profit)/Loss on sale of land, building and other assets
 152,790 
 20,624 
(i)
 63,816,147 
 52,784,796 
Adjustments for :
Increase / (Decrease) in Deposits
 181,529,616 
 488,703,101 
Increase/(Decrease) in Other Liabilities
 17,747,361 
 (21,719,313)
(Increase)/Decrease in Investments
 (30,498,290)
 (23,235,177)
(Increase)/Decrease in Advances
 (217,671,136)
 (272,942,970)
(Increase)/Decrease in Other assets
 46,334,720 
 (123,864,389)
(ii)
 (2,557,729)
 46,941,252 
Payment of direct taxes
(iii)
 (640,870)
 (3,766,056)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities (A)
(i+ii+iii)
 60,617,548 
 95,959,992 
Cash flow from/(used in) investing activities
Purchase of fixed assets
 (7,315,153)
 (9,736,256)
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets
 204,135 
 187,736 
Investment in equity shares of the subsidiary company
 (1,497,782)
 (999,999)
Difference of purchase consideration and value of net assets acquired charged off to 
P&L (Refer note 17.5.77)
 - 
 (9,650)
Investment in equity shares of Asset Reconstruction Company
 - 
 (731,421)
(Increase) / Decrease in Held To Maturity (HTM) securities
 93,983,944 
 (112,959,465)
Net cash generated from / (used in) investing activities (B)
 85,375,144 
 (124,249,055)
Cash flow from/(used in) financing activities
Increase/(decrease) in Borrowings (gross)
 (83,379,124)
 27,688,880 
Tier I/II Debt repaid during the year
 - 
 (2,800,000)
Proceeds from issue of Share Capital (net of share issue expense)
 28,816,540 
 171,955 
Proceeds from share warrants subscription money
 - 
 - 
Net cash generated from / (used in) financing activities (C)
 (54,562,584)
 25,060,835 
353
353
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Standalone cash flow statement
for the year ended March 31, 2025
 (` in thousands)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Effect of exchange fluctuation on translation reserve (D)
 (136,179)
 (219,751)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C+D)
 91,293,929 
 (3,447,979)
Cash and cash equivalents as at April 1st
 189,296,394 
 192,744,375 
Cash and cash equivalents as at March 31st
 280,590,323 
 189,296,394 
Notes to the Cash flow statement:
Cash and cash equivalents includes the following
Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India
 152,601,325 
 181,392,387 
Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice
 127,988,998 
 7,904,007 
Cash and cash equivalents as at March 31st
 280,590,323 
 189,296,394 
As per our report of even date attached.
For G. M. Kapadia & Co.
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 104767W
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
YES BANK Limited
CIN: L65190MH2003PLC143249
Atul Shah 
Partner
Membership No:  039569
Rama Subramaniam Gandhi 
Chairman
(DIN: 03341633)
Sanjay Khemani 
Director
(DIN: 00072812)
Prashant Kumar 
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN: 07562475)
For C N K & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 101961W/W100036
Suresh Agaskar
Partner 
Membership No: 110321
Rajan Pental
Executive Director 
(DIN: 08432870)
Manish Jain
Executive Director
(DIN: 10774800)
Niranjan Banodkar
Chief Financial Officer
Mumbai 
April 19, 2025
Sanjay Abhyankar
Company Secretary
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Schedules
forming a part of Standalone Balance Sheet
354
YES BANK LIMITED
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 1 - CAPITAL
Authorised Capital
40,000,000,000 equity shares of ` 2/- each
 80,000,000 
 80,000,000 
20,000,000 preference shares of ` 100/- each
 2,000,000 
 2,000,000 
Issued, subscribed and paid-up capital (Refer Sch 17.5.1)
31,354,115,322 equity shares of ` 2/- each
 62,708,231 
 57,535,764 
(March 31, 2024 : 28,767,882,106 equity shares of `  2/- each)  
TOTAL 
 62,708,231 
 57,535,764 
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 2  -  RESERVES AND SURPLUS
I
Statutory Reserves
Opening balance
 56,520,852 
 53,393,153 
Additions during the year 
 6,014,648 
 3,127,699 
Deductions during the year
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 62,535,500 
 56,520,852 
II
Share Premium
Opening balance
 366,612,150 
 366,438,573 
Additions during the year (Refer Sch 17.5.1)
 33,198,830 
 173,577 
Deductions during the year
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 399,810,980 
 366,612,150 
III
Capital Reserve
Opening balance
 17,562,457 
 17,299,817 
Additions during the year (Refer Sch 17.5.4)
 421,004 
 262,640 
Deductions during the year
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 17,983,461 
 17,562,457 
IV
Investment Reserve
Opening balance
 1,016,837 
 584,916 
Additions during the year (Refer Sch 17.5.5)
 - 
 431,921 
Deductions during the year
 1,016,837 
 - 
Closing balance
 - 
 1,016,837 
V
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
Opening balance
 (1,523,213)
 (1,303,463)
Additions during the year
 (136,179)
 (219,750)
Deductions during the year
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 (1,659,392)
 (1,523,213)
VI
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
Opening balance
 - 
 - 
Additions during the year (Refer Sch 17.5.6)
 - 
 - 
Deductions during the year 
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 - 
 - 
Schedules
forming a part of Standalone Balance Sheet
355
355
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
VII
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
Opening balance
 4,718,012 
 4,245,715 
Additions during the year  (Refer Sch 17.5.7)
 2,557,270 
 472,297 
Deductions during the year 
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 7,275,282 
 4,718,012 
VIII
Employee Stock Options Reserve
Opening balance
 576,887 
 292,158 
Additions during the year  (Refer Sch 17.5.8)
 675,765 
 312,565 
Deductions during the year 
 84,200 
 27,836 
Closing balance
 1,168,452 
 576,887 
IX
AFS Reserve
Opening balance
 - 
 - 
Additions during the year  (Refer Sch 17.5.9)
 1,664,626 
 - 
Deductions during the year 
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 1,664,626 
 - 
X
General Reserves
Opening balance
 - 
 - 
Additions during the year  (Refer Sch 17.5.9)
 2,278,092 
 - 
Deductions during the year 
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 2,278,092 
 - 
XI
Balance in Profit and Loss Account
 (75,964,693)
 (91,049,750)
TOTAL
 415,092,308  
 354,434,232 
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 3  -  DEPOSITS
A.
I.
Demand Deposits
i)
From Banks
 24,283,508 
 25,236,766 
ii)
From others
 408,761,278 
 388,203,128 
II.
Savings Bank Deposit
 541,756,215 
 409,729,868 
III.
Term Deposits
i)
From banks
 67,786,690 
 81,248,319 
ii)
From others (incl. certificate of deposits issued)
 1,802,663,642 
 1,759,303,636 
TOTAL 
 2,845,251,333 
 2,663,721,717 
B.
I.
Deposits of branches in India
 2,801,467,867 
 2,643,633,224 
II.
Deposits of branches outside India
 43,783,466 
 20,088,493 
TOTAL 
 2,845,251,333 
 2,663,721,717 
Includes lien marked deposits amounting to ` 529,148,240 thousands (March 31, 2024: `  176,243,472 thousands)
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Schedules
forming a part of Standalone Balance Sheet
356
YES BANK LIMITED
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 4 - BORROWINGS
I.
Borrowing in India
i)
Reserve Bank of India1
 11,040,000 
 16,450,000 
ii)
Other banks
 61,301,750 
 43,277,950 
iii)
Other institutions and agencies 1 & 2
 411,520,837 
 478,407,545 
iv)
Innovative Perpetual Debt Instruments (IPDI)
 - 
 - 
v)
Tier II Borrowings
 139,412,000 
 139,412,000 
TOTAL (A)
 623,274,587 
 677,547,495 
II.
Borrowings outside India
i)
Borrowings outside India
 92,755,092 
 121,861,308 
ii)
Innovative Perpetual Debt Instruments (IPDI)
 - 
 - 
iii)
Tier II Borrowings
 - 
 - 
TOTAL (B)
 92,755,092 
 121,861,308 
TOTAL (A+B)
 716,029,679 
 799,408,803 
(1) 	
Secured borrowings are ` 28,411,177 thousands (March 31, 2024: ` 22,279,505 thousands).
(2) 	
Including ` 369,649,660 thousands  of refinance borrowing (March 31, 2024: `   438,078,040 thousands) ` 3,150,000 thousands (March 
31 2024: ` 13,150,000 thousands) of Green Infrastructure Bonds raised to fund  'Green Projects' and ` 21,350,000 thousands (March 31, 
2024: ` 21,350,000 thousands) of Long Term Infrastructure Bonds raised to finance affordable housing and infrastructure projects.
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 5  -  OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS
I.
Bills payable
 3,587,041 
 4,986,264 
II.
Inter-office adjustments (net)
 - 
 - 
III.
Interest accrued
 23,069,255 
 27,001,197 
IV.
Others (including provisions)
-  	
Provision for standard advances
 14,943,030 
 16,733,338 
-  	
Country risk provision
 127,878 
 - 
-  	
Others*
 153,414,248 
 121,624,666 
-	
Income Tax Provision
 - 
 - 
TOTAL
 195,141,452 
 170,345,465 
*Others includes Marked to Market adjustments on derivatives ` 81,766,886 thousands (March 31, 2024: ` 53,897,552 thousands)
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 6 - CASH AND BALANCES WITH RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
I.
Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes)
 10,449,741 
 9,620,705 
II.
Balances with Reserve Bank of India
-	
In current account
 142,151,584 
 151,681,682 
- 	
In other account
 - 
 20,090,000 
TOTAL
 152,601,325 
 181,392,387 
Schedules
forming a part of Standalone Balance Sheet
357
357
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in thousands)
 As on 
 As on 
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 7 - BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT NOTICE
I.
In India
Balances with banks-
i)  
In current accounts
 5,708,654 
 2,686,303 
ii)
In other deposit accounts
 192,500 
 1,056,910 
Money at call and short notice
i)  
With Banks
 550,000 
 - 
ii)
With other institutions
 58,412,739 
 - 
TOTAL (I)
 64,863,893 
 3,743,213 
II.
Outside India
i)
In current account
 34,330,287 
 617,749 
ii)
In other deposit account
 - 
 - 
iii)
Money at call and short notice
 28,794,818 
 3,543,045 
TOTAL (II)
 63,125,105 
 4,160,794 
TOTAL (I+II)
 127,988,998 
 7,904,007 
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 8  -  INVESTMENTS (Net of provisions)
I.
Investments in India
i)
Government Securities*
 753,836,093 
 806,206,308 
ii)
Other approved securities
 - 
 - 
iii)
Shares
 2,467,619 
 1,283,620 
iv)
Debentures and bonds
 56,018,667 
 59,997,095 
v)
Subsidiaries and/or joint ventures
 3,987,781 
 2,489,999 
vi)
Others (Commercial Papers, Certificate of Deposits, Security Receipts, Pass through 
certificates, Mutual Funds, Venture Capital Funds etc.)
 22,423,666 
 24,561,295 
TOTAL (I)
 838,733,826 
 894,538,317 
II.
Investments outside India
i)
Government Securities
 12,281,846 
 7,806,343 
ii)
Shares
 29,155 
 6,662 
iii)
Debentures and bonds
 - 
 - 
iv)
Others (MFs)
 - 
 - 
TOTAL (II)
 12,311,001 
 7,813,005 
TOTAL (I+II)
 851,044,827 
 902,351,322 
* Includes securities of face value ` 31,481,000 thousands (March 31, 2024:  48,303,545 thousands) pledged for clearing facility and 
margin requirements.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Schedules
forming a part of Standalone Balance Sheet
358
YES BANK LIMITED
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 9 - ADVANCES (Net of provisions)
A.
i)
Bills purchased and discounted (net of Bills rediscounted)
 54,487,428 
 36,531,550 
ii)
Cash credit, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand (1)
 990,316,512 
 732,950,540 
iii)
Term loans
 1,417,080,750 
 1,508,512,630 
TOTAL
 2,461,884,690 
 2,277,994,720 
B.
i)
Secured by tangible assets  (includes advances secured by fixed deposits and book 
debt)
 1,878,313,306 
 1,754,090,502 
ii)
Covered by Bank/Government guarantees
 26,098,672 
 20,260,291 
iii)
Unsecured (2)(3)
 557,472,712 
 503,643,927 
TOTAL
 2,461,884,690 
 2,277,994,720 
(1) 	
Interbank Reverse Repo having  original tenors more than 14 days classified as Advances are Nil.
(2) 	
Includes at March 31, 2025 advances of   ` 40,890,416  thousands (March 31, 2024:   ` 49,662,585 thousands) for which security 
documentation is either being obtained or being registered.
(3) 	
Includes at March 31, 2025 advances amounting to ` 719,862 thousands (March 31, 2024 : ` 2,763,700 thousand) has been secured by 
intangible securities such as charge over the rights, licenses, authority, etc.
C.
I.
Advances in India
i)
Priority sectors 
 1,006,447,193 
 963,870,601 
ii)
Public sector
 - 
 - 
iii)
Banks
 11,884,669 
 5,879,698 
iv)
Others
 1,377,945,778 
 1,248,641,182 
TOTAL (I)
 2,396,277,640 
 2,218,391,481 
II.
Advances outside India
   
i)
Due from Banks
 2,559,581 
 207,781 
ii)
Due from Others
 63,047,469 
 59,395,458 
(a) 	
Bills purchased and discounted
 - 
 - 
(b) 	
Syndicated loans
 17,356,160 
 19,951,099 
(c) 	
Others
 45,691,309 
 39,444,359 
TOTAL (II)
 65,607,050 
 59,603,239 
TOTAL (I+II)
 2,461,884,690 
 2,277,994,720 
Schedules
forming a part of Standalone Balance Sheet
359
359
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 10 - FIXED ASSETS
I.
Premises 
At cost as on March 31st of preceding year
 12,102,530 
 12,102,530 
Additions during the year
 - 
 - 
Deductions during the year
 - 
 - 
Accumulated depreciation to date
 (699,572)
 (528,248)
TOTAL (I)
 11,402,958 
 11,574,282 
II.
Other Fixed Assets (including furniture and fixtures and software)
At cost as on March 31st of preceding year
 40,760,374 
 32,330,517 
Additions during the year
 8,801,288 
 9,127,617 
Deductions during the year
 (1,500,590)
 (697,759)
Accumulated depreciation to date
 (30,870,503)
 (27,335,762)
TOTAL (II)
 17,190,569 
 13,424,613 
TOTAL (I+II)
 28,593,527 
 24,998,895 
Capital work-in-progress
 2,060,721 
 3,566,323 
TOTAL
 30,654,248 
 28,565,218 
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 11  -  OTHER ASSETS
I.
Interest Accrued
 28,231,115 
 27,912,689 
II.
Advance tax and tax deducted at source (net of provision)
 16,483,953 
 11,933,776 
III.
Deferred tax asset (Refer Sch 17.5.53)
 76,553,751 
 85,630,915 
IV.
Stationery and stamps 
 2,227 
 2,115 
V.
Non-Banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims
 53,000 
 353,000 
VI.
Others*
 488,724,869 
 530,889,750 
TOTAL
 610,048,915 
 656,722,245 
*1. 	
Includes deposits placed with NABARD/SIDBI/NHB, etc. of ` 370,170,275 thousands (March 31, 2024: ` 440,872,509 thousands) on 
account of shortfall in priority sector targets.
2. 	
Includes Marked to Market adjustments on derivatives of ` 76,632,548 thousands (March 31, 2024: ` 47,752,918 thousands)
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Schedules
forming a part of Standalone Balance Sheet
360
YES BANK LIMITED
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 12  -  CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
I.
Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts 
 3,306,173 
 3,649,981 
II.
Liability for partly paid investments
 - 
 - 
III.
Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts 
 6,191,074,608 
 3,835,376,775 
IV.
Liability on account of outstanding derivative contracts
(a) 	
Single currency Interest Rate Swap
 3,753,560,416 
 2,614,541,640 
(b) 	
Others
 664,462,228 
 336,619,315 
V.
Guarantees given on behalf on constituents
(a) 	
In India
 652,382,285 
 589,956,581 
(b) 	
Outside India
 1,030,330 
 - 
VI.
Acceptances, endorsement and other obligations
 242,528,445 
 210,148,657 
VII.
Other items for which the bank is contingently liable
(a) 	
Purchase of securities pending settlement
 8,678,815 
 958,430 
(b) 	
Capital commitment
 2,983,558 
 4,037,417 
(c) 	
Amount deposited with RBI under Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEAF)
 459,215 
 310,144 
(d) 	
Foreign exchange contracts (Tom & Spot)
 359,088,329 
 363,535,042 
(e) 	
Custody
 13,969,354 
 2,509,542 
(f) 	
Bills Rediscounting
 - 
 - 
(g) 	
Letter of Undertaking
 8,836,053 
 7,928,725 
(h) 	
When Issued (‘WI’) securities
 - 
 - 
(i) 	
Letter of Comfort
 - 
 - 
TOTAL
 11,902,359,809 
 7,969,572,249 
Contingent Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts and single currency interest rate swap as on March 31, 2025 includes 
notional amount of ` 5,664,254,966 thousands and ` 2,036,677,633 thousands (Mar 31, 2024: ` 3,697,440,095 thousands and ` 1,517,307,402 
thousands) guaranteed by CCIL representing 86.48% and 54.26% (Mar 31, 2024: 88.06% and 58.03%) of total outstanding forward exchange 
contracts and single currency interest rate swaps respectively.
Schedules
forming a part of Standalone Profit and Loss account
361
361
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in thousands)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 13  -  INTEREST EARNED
I.
Interest/discount on advances/bills
 232,997,648 
 210,874,867 
II.
Income on investments (including dividend)
 56,944,896 
 49,582,584 
III.
Interest on balances with Reserve Bank of India and other inter-bank funds
 3,930,859 
 4,583,982 
IV.
Others
 15,075,698 
 10,817,950 
TOTAL
 308,949,101 
 275,859,383 
(` in thousands)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 14 - OTHER INCOME
I.
Commission, exchange and brokerage
 37,132,129 
 30,742,601 
II.
Profit/(Loss) on the sale of investments (net)
 4,111,268 
 2,270,961 
III.
Profit/(Loss) on the revaluation of investments (net)
 325,230 
 1,043,288 
IV.
Profit/(Loss) on sale of land, building and other assets
 (152,790)
 (20,624)
V.
Profit/(Loss) on exchange transactions (net)
 6,567,450 
 6,441,110 
VI.
Income earned by way of dividends etc. from subsidiaries, companies and/or joint 
ventures abroad/in India
 - 
 - 
VII.
Miscellaneous income
 10,585,344 
 10,665,652 
TOTAL
 58,568,631 
 51,142,988 
(` in thousands)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 15  -  INTEREST EXPENDED
 I. 
Interest on deposits
 158,475,898 
 135,648,191 
 II. 
Interest on Reserve Bank of India/inter-bank borrowings/Tier I and Tier II debt instruments
 59,384,936 
 57,977,557 
 III. 
Others
 1,644,805 
 1,287,434 
TOTAL
 219,505,639 
 194,913,182 
(` in thousands)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 16  -  OPERATING EXPENSES
I.
Payments to and provisions for employees
 40,084,035 
 37,742,776 
II.
Rent, taxes and lighting
 5,853,031 
 5,017,809 
III.
Printing and stationery
 697,619 
 677,971 
IV.
Advertisement and publicity
 449,766 
 473,056 
V.
Depreciation on Bank's property
 4,869,199 
 5,410,402 
VI.
Directors' fees, allowances and expenses
 62,841 
 44,264 
VII.
Auditors' fees and expenses
 41,813 
 47,278 
VIII.
Law charges 
 94,731 
 142,282 
IX.
Postage, telegrams, telephones, etc.
 640,119 
 617,504 
X.
Repairs and maintenance
 608,748 
 578,980 
XI.
Insurance
 4,175,171 
 3,447,244 
XII.
Other expenditure
 47,895,505 
 44,027,010 
TOTAL
 105,472,578 
 98,226,576 
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
362
YES BANK LIMITED
17.	 Significant accounting policies and notes forming part of the accounts for the year ended March 31, 2025
17.1	Background1
YES BANK Limited (the ‘Bank’) is a publicly held bank engaged in providing a wide range of banking and financial services. 
YES BANK Limited is a banking company governed by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The Bank was incorporated as a limited 
company under the Companies Act, 1956 on November 21, 2003. The Bank received the licence to commence banking operations 
from the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) on May 24, 2004. Further, the Ba was included to the Second Schedule of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act, 1934 with effect from August 21, 2004. Also, the Bank has a branch at International Financial Services Centre (‘IFSC’) 
at GIFT City, Gujarat (‘IBU’). The Bank classifies transactions undertaken by IBU as overseas operation. The financial accounting 
system of the Bank is centralized and, therefore, accounting returns are not required to be submitted by branches of the Bank.
17.2	Basis of preparation
The standalone financial statements have been prepared in accordance with requirements prescribed under the Third Schedule 
(Form A and Form B) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The accounting and reporting policies of the Bank used in the preparation 
of these financial statements conform to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (Indian GAAP), the guidelines and 
clarifications issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) from time to time, the accounting standards notified under section 133 of 
the Companies Act 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2021 to the extent applicable and practices generally prevalent in the banking industry in India. The Bank follows the 
accrual method of accounting and the historical cost convention, unless otherwise stated by RBI guidelines.
17.3	Use of estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires the management to make estimates and assumptions that are considered while 
reporting amounts of assets and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) as of the date of the financial statements and income 
and expenses during the reporting period. Management believes that the estimates used in the preparation of the financial 
statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual results could differ from these estimates. The impact of any revision in these 
estimates is recognised prospectively from the period of change.
Significant accounting policies
17.4.1 Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Bank and the revenue can be 
reliably measured.
	
Interest income is recognised in the profit and loss account on accrual basis, except in the case of non-performing assets. 
Interest on non-performing assets is recognised as per the prudential norms of the RBI. Penal Charges for covenant breach 
is recognised upon certainty of its realisation.
	
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
	
Commission on Guarantees and Letters of Credit (‘LC’) issued by the Bank is recognised as income over the period of the 
Guarantee and LC respectively.
	
Income on non-coupon bearing discounted instruments is recognised over the tenure of the instrument on a straight line 
basis. In case of coupon bearing discounted instruments, discount income is recognised over the tenor of the instrument on 
a straight line basis.
	
In case of Bonds and Pass Through Certificates (PTC), premium on redemption, if any, is amortised over the tenure of the 
instrument on a straight line basis.
1GRI 2-1
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
363
363
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
Revenue from financial advisory services is recognised in line with milestones achieved as per terms of agreement with 
clients which is reflective of services rendered.
	
Facility fees and loan processing fees are recognised when due and realisable.
	
Other fees and commission are accounted for as and when they became due and realisable.
	
Gain / loss on sell down of loans is recognised in line with the extant RBI guidelines.
	
Appropriations of recoveries in standard advances (except for credit cards, which is based on agreement) are made 
in below order:
	
a)	
Penal charges (on financial overdue)
	
b)	
Interest
	
c)	
Principal
	
d) 	
Charges, Costs, Commission etc.
	
Appropriations of recoveries in NPAs (except for credit cards, which is based on agreement) are made in below order:
	
a)	
Principal
	
b)	
Interest
	
c)	
Penal charges (on financial charges)
	
d) 	
Penal charges (on non-financial overdue), Costs, Commission etc.
17.4.2 Investments
Classification and valuation of the Bank’s investments are carried out in accordance with RBI Circular DOR.
MRG.36/21.04.141/2023-24 dated September 12, 2023, as amended.
Accounting and Classification
The Bank follows settlement date accounting for Investments. In compliance with RBI guidelines, all investments, are categorised 
as “Fair Value Through Profit & Loss” (‘FVTPL’), “Available for Sale” (‘AFS’) or “Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’) and under sub-category 
of FVTPL as “Held for Trading” (‘HFT’) at the time of its purchase. All investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 
are categorised under a separate category as “Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures” (‘Subsidiaries and/
or joint ventures’). For the purpose of disclosure in the balance sheet, investments are classified as disclosed in Schedule 8 
(‘Investments’) under six groups (a) government securities (b) other approved securities (c) shares (d) debentures and bonds (e) 
subsidiaries and/or joint ventures and (f) others.
Purchase and sale transactions in securities are accounted on settlement date.
a)	
Initial Recognition (Cost of acquisition)
	
All investments are measured at fair value on initial recognition, unless facts and circumstances suggest that the fair value 
is materially different from the acquisition cost, the acquisition cost is the fair value of the assets. In case the fair value of 
investment is different from cost of acquisition, Day 1 Gain/Loss is recognised in Profit and Loss Account.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
364
YES BANK LIMITED
	
Day 1 Loss arising from Level 3 investments is recognised immediately. Any Day 1 gains arising from Level 3 investments 
is deferred. In case of debt instruments, the Day 1 gain is amortised on a straight-line basis up to the maturity date (or 
earliest call date for perpetual instruments), while for unquoted equity instruments, the gain is set aside as a liability until 
the security is listed or derecognised.
	
Cost such as brokerage pertaining to investments, paid at the time of acquisition and broken period interest are charged to 
the profit and loss account as per the RBI guidelines.
b)	
Basis of classification
	
Investments are classified as per guidance provided in the RBI Master Direction - Classification, Valuation and Operation of 
Investment Portfolio of Commercial Banks Directions, 2023 Circular DOR.MRG.36/21.04.141/2023-24 dated September 12, 
2023. Securities that meets SPPI criterion and the Bank intends to hold them till maturity are classified under the HTM 
category. Securities meets SPPI criterion and the Bank intends to held for sale are classified under AFS category. All other 
investments excluding investments in subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures, which are not classified in the above 
categories are classified under the FVTPL (non-HFT) residual category. Held for Trading (HFT) is a separate investment 
subcategory within FVTPL. Investment in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures are classified under a separate 
category as “Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures.”
c)	
Reclassification between categories
	
Reclassification of investments from one category to the other, if done, is in accordance with RBI guidelines. As per RBI 
guidelines, reclassification between category requires Board of Directors prior approval. Further, reclassification shall also 
require the prior approval of the Department of Supervision (DoS), RBI.
	
When investments reclassified between categories, the accounting treatment shall be in accordance with chapter – VI of RBI 
Circular DOR.MRG.36/21.04.141/2023-24 dated September 12, 2023.
d)	
Valuation (Subsequent Measurement)
	
Investments categorised under AFS and FVTPL categories is fair valued on periodical basis as per relevant RBI guidelines. 
The valuation gains and losses across all performing investments irrespective of classification held under AFS or FVTPL is 
aggregated. The net appreciation or depreciation is directly credited or debited to AFS reserve or Profit & Loss Account of 
investments under AFS or FVTPL category respectively.
	
Investments received in lieu of restructured advances scheme are valued in accordance with RBI guidelines. Any diminution 
in value on these investments is provided for and is not used to set off against appreciation in respect of other performing 
securities in that category. Depreciation on equity shares acquired and held by the Bank under restructuring scheme is 
provided as per RBI guidelines.
	
Investments classified under the HTM category are carried at cost and any premium or discount over the face value, paid on 
acquisition, is amortised on a straight-line basis over the remaining period to maturity. Where in the opinion of management, 
a diminution, other than temporary in the value of investments classified under HTM has taken place, suitable provisions are 
made. Profit/loss on sale of investments in the ‘Held to Maturity’ category is recognised in the profit and loss account and 
profit is thereafter appropriated (net of applicable taxes and statutory reserve requirements) to Capital Reserve.
	
Investments in subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures as classified under a separate category “Investments in 
Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures” is held at acquisition cost. The Bank assesses these investments for impairment 
on intervals as mentioned in RBI circular.
	
Treasury Bills, Commercial Paper and Certificates of deposit being discounted instruments, are valued at carrying cost.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
365
365
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
PTCs purchased for priority sector lending requirements are valued in accordance with RBI guidelines.
	
The market/ fair value applied for the purpose of periodical valuation of quoted investments included in the AFS and FVTPL 
(including HFT) categories is the market price of the scrip as available from the trades/ quotes on the recognised stock 
exchanges and for Subsidiary General Ledger (‘SGL’) account transactions, the prices as periodically declared by Financial 
Benchmarks India Pvt. Ltd. (FBIL).
	
The market/ fair value of unquoted government securities included in the AFS and FVTPL (including HFT) category is 
determined as per the prices published by FBIL. Further, in the case of unquoted bonds, debentures, PTCs (other than priority 
sector) and preference shares, valuation is carried out by applying an appropriate mark-up (reflecting associated credit risk) 
over the Yield to Maturity (‘YTM’) rates of government securities. Such mark up and YTM rates applied are as per the relevant 
rates published by FIMMDA/FBIL.
	
The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central Government dated securities in accordance with RBI guidelines. 
The short position is reflected as the amount received on sale which is categorised under HFT category and is netted in the 
Investment schedule. The short position is marked to market and loss, if any, is charged to the Profit and Loss account while 
gain, if any, is ignored. Profit / Loss on settlement of the short position is recognised in the Profit and Loss account.
	
Investments in unquoted Alternative Investment Funds (AIF)/Venture Capital Funds (VCF) are valued at Net Asset Value 
(NAV) disclosed by the AIF/VCF. Where AIF/VCF fails to carry out and disclose the valuation of an independent valuer as per 
the frequency mandated by SEBI, the value of its units shall be treated as ` 1 per VCF/AIF.
	
In case AIF/VCF is not registered under SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulations, 2012 (SEBI AIF regulations) and the 
latest disclosed valuation of its investment precedes the date of valuation by more than 18 months the value of units shall 
be treated as ` 1 per VCF/AIF. In case AIF is registered under SEBI AIF regulations, Category I and Category II Alternative 
Investment Funds, undertakes valuation at least once in every six months, by an independent valuer appointed by the 
Alternative Investment Fund:
	
Quoted equity shares are valued at their closing price on a recognised stock exchange. Unquoted equity shares are valued at 
the break-up value if the latest balance sheet is available, else, at ` 1 per company, as per relevant RBI guidelines.
	
For stressed loans transferred to Asset Reconstruction Company (ARC) where the consideration is lower than the net book 
value (NBV) at the time of transfer, the shortfall is debited to the Profit and Loss Account and spread equally over the 
financial year. The realised profit, where the cash recovery exceeds the NBV of the stressed loans, the same is credited 
to Profit and Loss Account. For stressed loans where the consideration received was higher than the NBV at the time of 
transfer but the cash recovery is lower than the NBV, such excess amount is not reversed in the Profit and Loss Account and 
the Bank continues to carry forward the same as provision against the Security Receipts (SRs). In effect, the value of SRs 
is reflected in a manner that the value of SRs is not higher than the NBV of the loans transferred to ARC. The provisioning 
requirements is as per the extant RBI guidelines applied on each reporting date, taking into account the principle that there 
should be no provisioning arbitrage between the provisioning on security receipts vis-à-vis the provisioning requirements 
on the underlying stressed loans, had it stayed in the books. SRs/ PTCs which are not redeemed as at the end of resolution 
period are fully provided in books of accounts.
	
Investments in quoted Mutual Fund (MF) Units are valued at the latest repurchase price/NAV declared by the MF. 
Investments in un-quoted MF Units are valued on the basis of the latest re-purchase price declared by the MF in respect of 
each particular Scheme.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
366
YES BANK LIMITED
	
Investment in listed instruments of Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT)/Infrastructure Investment Trust (INVIT) is valued 
at closing price on a recognised stock exchange with the higher volumes. In case the instruments were not traded on any 
stock exchange within 15 days prior to date of valuation, valuation is done based on the latest NAV (not older than 1 year) 
submitted by the valuer.
	
Sovereign foreign currency bonds are valued using Composite Bloomberg Bond Trader (CBBT) price or Bloomberg Valuation 
Service (BVAL) price or on Treasury curve in the chronological order based on availability.
	
Non-Sovereign foreign currency Bonds are valued using either CBBT price, BVAL price, Bloomberg Generic price (BGN), 
Last available CBBT pricing for the instrument or Proxy Bond Pricing from Bloomberg in the chronological order based 
on availability.
	
Masala bonds are valued using either CBBT price, BVAL price or as per FIMMDA guided valuation methodology for unquoted 
bonds in the chronological order based on availability.
	
Special bonds such as oil bonds, fertilizer bonds, UDAY bonds etc. which are directly issued by Government of India (‘GOI’) is 
valued based on FBIL valuation.
	
Equity shares in the Bank’s demat account, acquired through exercise of pledge, is not accounted as investments. Upon sale 
of the pledged shares, the proceeds are utilised to offset the borrower’s liability.
	
Non-performing investments are identified and depreciation / provision are made thereon as per the RBI guidelines. 
The criterion used to classify an asset as Non-Performing Asset (NPA) as per the extant Prudential Norms on Income 
Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning (IRACP) pertaining to Advances is used to classify an investment as a 
Non-Performing Investment (NPI). Similarly, an NPI shall only be upgraded to standard when it meets the criteria specified 
in the IRACP norms. Based on management assessment of impairment, the Bank additionally creates provision over and 
above the RBI guidelines. The depreciation / provision on such non-performing investments are not set off against the 
appreciation in respect of other performing securities. Interest on non-performing investments is not recognised in the 
Profit and Loss account until received in cash.
e)	
Profit/Loss on sale of Investments
	
Cost of investments is computed based on the First-In-First-Out (FIFO) method. Profit/Loss on sale of Investments in the 
HTM category is recognised in the profit and loss account and profit thereafter is appropriated (net of applicable taxes and 
statutory reserve requirements) to Capital Reserve. Profit/Loss on sale of investments in FVTPL and non-equity investment 
under AFS categories is recognised in the Profit and Loss account. Profit/Loss on sale of investments in equity investment 
under AFS category is transferred from AFS-reserve to the Capital Reserve.
f)	
Accounting for repos / reverse repos/Targeted Long-Term Repo Operations (TLTRO)
	
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase (Repos) and securities purchased under agreements to resell (Reverse 
Repos) including liquidity adjustment facility (LAF) with RBI are treated as collateralized borrowing and lending transactions 
respectively in accordance with RBI Circular DOR.MRG.42/21.04.141/2021-22 dated August 25, 2021. The first leg of the 
repo transaction is contracted at the prevailing market rates. The difference between consideration amounts of first and 
second (reversal of first) leg reflects interest and is recognised as interest income/expense over the period of transaction.
	
In compliance with RBI circular RBI/2022-23/55 DOR.ACC.REC.No.37/21.04.018/2022-23 dated May 19, 2022, reverse 
repos with banks and other institutions having original tenors more than 14 days classified under Schedule 9 – Advances.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
367
367
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
g)	
Investment fluctuation reserve (IFR)
	
Transfer to IFR will be lower of the following (i) net profit on sale of investments during the year or (ii) net profit for the year 
less mandatory appropriations; until the amount of IFR is at least 2 percent of the FVTPL (including HFT) and AFS portfolio, 
on a continuing basis.
17.4.3 Advances
Accounting and classification
Advances are classified as performing and non-performing based on the relevant RBI guidelines. Advances are stated net of 
specific provisions, interest in suspense, inter-bank participation certificates issued, direct assignment and bills rediscounted.
Assets transferred through direct assignment of cash flows are de-recognised in the Balance Sheet when they are sold (true sale 
criteria being fully met with) and consideration is received by the Bank. For assets acquired under direct assignment / co-lending 
arrangements, the appropriation of recoveries and levy of penal interest / charges is in accordance with the contractual terms 
that have been agreed with the borrower.
Provisioning
Provisions in respect of non-performing advances are made based on management’s assessment of the degree of impairment 
of the advances, subject to the minimum provisioning level prescribed in relevant RBI guidelines. The specific provision levels for 
retail non-performing advances are also based on the nature of product and delinquency levels. Specific provisions in respect of 
non-performing advances are charged to the Profit and Loss account and included under Provisions and Contingencies. In relation 
to non-performing derivative contracts, as per the extant RBI guidelines, the Bank makes provision for the entire amount of 
overdue and future receivables relating to positive marked to market value of the said derivative contracts.
The Bank considers an account as restructured, where for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, 
the Bank grants concessions to the borrower, that the Bank would not otherwise consider. The moratorium granted to the 
borrowers based on RBI guidelines is not accounted as restructuring of loan. The RBI guidelines on ‘Resolution Framework for 
COVID-19-related Stress’ provide a prudential framework for resolution plan of certain loans. The borrowers where resolution 
plan was implemented under these guidelines are classified as standard restructured.
In respect of loans reported as fraud to RBI the entire amount is provided for over a period not exceeding four quarters starting 
from the quarter in which fraud has been detected. In respect of loans where there has been delay in reporting the fraud to the 
RBI, the entire amount is provided immediately.
The Bank makes additional provisions as per RBI guidelines for the cases where viable resolution plan has not been implemented 
within timelines prescribed by RBI, from the date of default. These additional provisions are written back on satisfying the 
conditions for reversal as per RBI guidelines.
As per the RBI guidelines a general provision is made on all standard advances, including provision for borrowers having unhedged 
foreign currency exposure and for credit exposures computed as per the current marked to market values of interest rate and 
foreign exchange derivative contracts. The general provision also includes provision for stressed sector exposures and provision 
for incremental exposure of the banking system to a specified borrower beyond Normally Permitted Lending Limit (NPLL) in 
proportion to the Bank’s funded exposure to specified borrower. Further, provision requirement under various Restructure scheme 
of RBI also forms part of general provision. Such provisions are included in Schedule 5 - ‘Other liabilities & provisions – Others’.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
368
YES BANK LIMITED
In respect of restructured standard and non performing advances/investments, provision is made for the present value of 
principal and interest component sacrificed at the time of restructuring the assets, based on the RBI guidelines.
As per requirement of RBI guideline, any interest accrued and due if converted into a loan (i.e. Funded Interest Term Loan) then 
such income will be reversed and will be recognised on cash basis.
Accounts are written-off in accordance with the Bank’s policies. Recoveries from bad debts written-off are recognised in the 
Profit and Loss account and included under Provisions and Contingencies.
The Bank has in place a Country Risk management policy as part of its Board approved Credit policy, which is based on extant 
regulatory guidelines and addresses the identification, measurement, monitoring and reporting of country risk. Countries are 
categorised into seven risk categories, viz. Insignificant, Low Risk, Moderately Low Risk, Moderate Risk, Moderately High Risk, 
High Risk and Very High Risk. The Bank calculates direct and indirect country risk in line with the Credit policy requirements. 
Indirect exposure is reckoned at 50% of the exposure in case of countries where the net funded exposure exceeds 1% of the Bank’s 
total assets. Further, if the net funded exposure of the Bank in respect of each country exceeds 1% of the Bank’s total assets, 
provisioning is required to be made on exposure to such countries. Depending on the risk category of the country, provisioning is 
done on a graded scale ranging from 0.25% to 100%.
The Bank has a Board approved policy for creation, utilization and accounting of contingency provisions. The contingency 
provision refers to specific provision recognized on the Bank’s standard advances / investments and NFB exposures over and 
above regulatory provision. The contingency provision will be utilized against creation of specific regulatory provision or provision 
as per Bank’s Policy. Contingency provisions shall not be reversed by credit to the profit and loss account unless the specific 
exposures have been fully or partially settled/paid off / written off. Until utilization, the contingency provisions shall not be 
netted from gross advances but shown separately as ‘Contingent Provisions against Standard Assets’ under ‘Other Liabilities and 
Provisions Others’ in Schedule 5 of the balance sheet.
The Bank has a Board approved policy for making floating provision, which is in addition to the specific and general provisions 
made by the Bank. The floating provision is utilised, with the approval of Board and RBI, in case of contingencies which do not 
arise in the normal course of business and are exceptional and non-recurring in nature and for making specific provision for 
impaired loans as per the requirement if extant RBI guidelines or any regulatory guidance/instructions. The floating provision is 
netted-off from advances.
17.4.4 Transactions involving foreign exchange
Foreign currency income and expenditure items of domestic operations are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on the 
date of the transaction. Income and expenditure items of integral foreign operations are translated at the daily average closing 
rates and of non-integral foreign operations (foreign branches) at the monthly average closing rates.
Premia/discounts on foreign exchange swaps that are used to hedge risks arising from foreign currency assets and liabilities are 
amortised over the life of the swap.
Monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at the balance sheet date at rates notified by the Foreign Exchange 
Dealers’ Association of India (‘FEDAI’). Foreign exchange contracts are stated at net present value using risk-free rates (‘RFRs’)/
SWAP curves of the respective currencies with the resulting unrealised gain or loss being recognised in the Profit and Loss 
Account and correspondingly in other assets (representing positive Mark-to-Market) and in other liabilities (representing negative 
Mark-to-Market (‘MTM’)) on a gross basis.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
369
369
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial conduct authority (‘FCA’) of the United Kingdom has phased out London interbank offered rate (‘LIBOR’) on 
December 2021, replacing it by Alternate Reference Rate (‘ARR’). Libor was used by the Bank as benchmark for funded as well as 
Non-funded exposure. Accordingly, Mumbai interbank forward offered rate (‘MIFOR’) (derived with LIBOR and forward premium 
in forex markets) has also been replaced by Modified MIFOR.
RBI vide the press release CO.FMRD.DIRD.S39/14.02.001/2021-22 on July 08, 2021 has encouraged the Banks to cease entering 
into new financial contracts that has reference LIBOR/MIFOR as a benchmark and instead use widely accepted ARR. The Bank 
has started offering new transaction based on ARR curve w.e.f January 1, 2022 except existing underlying transactions linked to 
LIBOR/MIFOR as permissible by the regulations.
In accordance with Accounting Standard 11 ‘The Effects of changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’, contingent liabilities in respect of 
outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts, derivatives, guarantees, endorsements and other obligations are stated at the 
exchange rates notified by FEDAI corresponding to the balance sheet date.
Both monetary and non-monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations are translated at 
closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI at the Balance Sheet date and the resulting profit / loss arising from exchange differences 
are accumulated in the Foreign Currency Translation Reserve until the disposal of the net investment in the non-integral 
foreign operations.
In accordance with the RBI clarification, the Bank does not recognise in the profit and loss account the proportionate exchange 
gains or losses held in the foreign currency translation reserve on repatriation of profits from overseas operations.
Currency future contracts are marked to market daily using settlement price on a trading day, which is the closing price of the 
respective future contracts on that day. While the daily settlement prices are computed on the basis of weighted average price of 
such contract, the final settlement price is taken as the RBI reference rate on the last trading day of the future contract or as may 
be specified by the relevant authority from time to time. All open positions are marked to market based on the settlement price 
and the resultant marked to market profit / loss is daily settled.
17.4.5 Earnings per share
The Bank reports basic and diluted earnings per equity share in accordance with AS-20, “Earnings per Share.” Basic earnings per 
equity share have been computed by dividing net profit after tax for the year by the weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding for the period.
Diluted earnings per equity share have been computed using the weighted average number of equity shares and dilutive potential 
equity shares outstanding during the period except where the results are anti-dilutive.
17.4.6 Accounting for derivative transactions
Derivative transactions comprise foreign exchange contracts, forward rate agreements, swaps and option contracts (Including 
Exchange Traded Currency Option (ETCO)). The Bank undertakes derivative transactions for market making/trading and hedging 
on-balance sheet assets and liabilities. All market making/trading transactions are marked to market on a regular basis and the 
resultant unrealised gains/losses are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Derivative transactions that are undertaken for hedging are accounted for on accrual basis except for the transaction designated 
with an asset or liability that is carried at market value or lower of cost or market value in the financial statements, which are 
accounted similar to the underlying asset or liability.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
370
YES BANK LIMITED
Cross currency interest rate swaps which are used by the Bank to hedge its foreign currency borrowings are designated as cash 
flow hedges (effective hedges) and are measured at fair value. The corresponding gain or loss is recognised as cash flow hedge 
reserve. Further to match profit/ loss on account of revaluation of foreign currency borrowing, the corresponding amount is 
recycled from cash flow hedge reserve to Profit and Loss account.
The Bank follows the option premium accounting framework prescribed by FEDAI SPL- circular dated December 14, 2007. 
Premium on option transaction is recognised as income/expense on expiry or early termination of the transaction. Mark to market 
(MTM) gain/loss (adjusted for premium received/paid on option contracts) is recorded under ‘Other Income’.
The amounts received/paid on cancellation of option contracts are recognised as realised gains/losses on options. 
Charges receivable/payable on cancellation/ termination of foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps are recognised as 
income/ expense on the date of cancellation/ termination under ‘Other Income’.
Valuation of Interest Rate Futures (IRF) is carried out on the basis of the daily settlement price of each contract provided 
by the exchange.
The requirement for collateral and credit risk mitigation on derivative contracts is assessed based on internal credit policy. 
Overdue if any, on account of derivative transactions are accounted in accordance with extant RBI guidelines.
As per the RBI guidelines on ‘Prudential Norms for Off-balance Sheet Exposures of Banks’ a general provision is made on the 
current gross MTM gain of the contract for all outstanding interest rate and foreign exchange derivative transactions.
The Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts Act, 2020 (the Act), has been notified by the Government of India and 
subsequent to this the RBI through circular dated March 30, 2021 allowed netting of the Qualified Financial Contracts (QFC). 
In respect of derivative contracts, the Bank has computed the exposure under the Current Exposure Method for counterparty 
credit risk capital computation based on the guidelines issued by RBI on “Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts - 
Amendments to Prudential Guidelines” dated March 30, 2021 and subsequent amendments dated March 31, 2022 and August 11, 
2022 for eligible counterparties.
17.4.7 Fixed assets
Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation, amortization and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises 
the purchase price including import duties and non –refundable purchase taxes, after deducting trade discounts and rebates and 
any cost attributable for bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. Subsequent expenditure incurred on 
assets put to use is capitalised only when it increases the future benefit /functioning capability from / of such assets.
Capital work-in-progress includes cost of fixed assets that are not ready for their intended use and also includes advances paid 
to acquire fixed assets.
17.4.8 Non-banking assets
Non-banking assets (NBAs) acquired in satisfaction of claims are carried at lower of net book value and net realisable value, 
whichever is lower. Further, the Bank creates provision on these assets as per the extant RBI guidelines or specific RBI directions.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
371
371
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.4.9 Depreciation
Depreciation on fixed assets is provided on straight-line method for the complete month of the purchase, over estimated useful 
lives, as determined by the management, as mentioned below:
Class of asset
Useful life of Assets as per 
Companies Act, 2013
Useful life of Assets as per 
the Bank’s Accounting Policy
Owned Premises
60 years
60 years
Office equipment
5 years
5 years
Computer hardware1,2
6 years
3-6 years
Computer software1,2
6 years
5 years
Vehicles1
8 years
5 years
Furniture and Fixtures
10 years
10 years
Leasehold improvements to premises
-
Over the lease period or 9 
years whichever is less.
1 Based on technical evaluation, the management believes that the useful lives as given above best represent the period over which management 
expects to use these assets. Hence, the useful lives for these assets are different from the useful lives as prescribed under Part C of Schedule II 
of the Companies Act 2013.
2Based on internal technical evaluation and past experience, the management has decided to change in useful lives of Computer Hardware 
which primarily includes servers/ networks/ data center assets to 6 years (excluding end user technology assets like laptops and desktops) and 
Computer software to 5 years w.e.f. April 01, 2024 as against 3 years and 4 years respectively.
	
Asset costing up to ` 5,000 are fully depreciated in the year of purchase.
	
For assets purchased/ sold during the year, depreciation is being provided on pro rata basis by the Bank.
	
Profit on sale of premises by the Bank is appropriated to capital reserve, net of transfer to Statutory Reserve taxes, in 
accordance with RBI guidelines.
	
Subsequent improvements to leasehold assets are depreciated over the remaining period of lease.
	
Reimbursement, if any, is recognised on receipt and is adjusted to the book value of asset and depreciated over the balance 
life of the asset.
	
Whenever there is a revision in the estimated useful life of the asset, the unamortised depreciable amount is charged over 
the revised remaining useful life of the said asset.
	
The useful life of assets is based on historical experience of the Bank, which is different from the useful life as prescribed in 
Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013.
17.4.10 Impairment of assets
The Bank assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired. Impairment loss, if any, 
is provided in the Profit and Loss Account to the extent the carrying amount of assets exceeds their estimated recoverable amount.
17.4.11 Employee benefits1
Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘ESOS’)
The Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘the Scheme’) provides for the grant of options to acquire equity shares of the Bank to its 
employees. The options granted to employees vest in a graded manner and these may be exercised by the employees within 
specified periods.
1GRI 401-2
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
372
YES BANK LIMITED
Measurement of the employee share-based payment plans is done in accordance with the Guidance Note on Accounting for 
Employee Share-based Payments issued by Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021. RBI, vide its clarification dated August 30, 2021 
on Guidelines on Compensation of Whole Time Directors / Chief Executive Officers / Material Risk Takers and Control Function 
Staff, advised banks that the fair value of share-linked instruments on the date of grant should be recognised as an expense 
for all instruments granted after the accounting period ending March 31, 2021. Accordingly, the Bank changed its accounting 
policy from the intrinsic value method to the fair value method for all share-linked instruments granted after March 31, 2021. 
The fair value of the stock-based compensation is estimated on the date of grant using Black-Scholes model is recognised as 
compensation expense over the vesting period.
Options granted till March 31, 2021, the Bank measures compensation cost relating to employee stock options using the 
intrinsic value method. Compensation cost is measured by the excess, if any, of the fair market price of the underlying stock 
(i.e. the last closing price on the stock exchange on the day preceding the date of grant of stock options) over the exercise price. 
The exercise price of the Bank’s stock option is the last closing price on the stock exchange on the day preceding the date of grant 
of stock options.
Compensated absences
The employees of the Bank are entitled to carry forward a part of their unavailed/unutilised privilege leave subject to a maximum 
limit. The employees cannot encash unavailed/unutilised leave except employees based out of Abu Dhabi Representative 
Office (“ADRO”) and employees superannuating from the Bank. Employees based at ADRO are allowed to encash remaining 
annual leave only at the time resignation/termination/transfer to another country. Employees superannuating are allowed to 
encash a maximum of 30 days privilege leave balance at time of superannuation. The Bank provides for leave encashment / 
compensated absences based on an independent actuarial valuation at the Balance Sheet date, which includes assumptions 
about demographics, early retirement, salary increases, interest rates and leave utilisation.
Gratuity
The Bank provides for gratuity, for all employees. The Gratuity is payable to an employee as per Payment of Gratuity Act. 
The Bank accounts for the liability for future gratuity benefits using the projected unit credit method based on independent 
actuarial valuation.
The defined gratuity benefit plans are valued by an independent actuary as at the Balance Sheet date using the projected unit 
credit method as per the requirement of AS-15, Employee Benefits, to determine the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation and the related service costs. Under this method, the determination is based on actuarial calculations, which include 
assumptions about demographics, early retirement, salary increases and interest rates. Actuarial gain or loss is recognised in the 
Profit and Loss account.
Provident fund
All employees of the Bank are covered under the Employees Provident Fund, a defined contribution plan in which both the 
employee and the Bank contribute monthly. Contribution to provident fund is recognised as expense as and when the services 
are rendered. The Bank has no liability for future provident fund benefits other than its monthly contribution.
National Pension Scheme (NPS)
The NPS is a defined contribution retirement plan. The primary objective is enabling systematic savings and to provide retirees 
with an option to achieve financial stability. Pension contributions are invested in the pension fund schemes. The Bank has no 
liability for future fund benefits other than the voluntary contribution made by employees who agree to contribute to the scheme.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
373
373
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.4.12 Leases
Leases where the lessor effectively retains substantially all risks and benefits of ownership are classified as operating leases. 
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term 
in accordance with AS-19, Leases.
17.4.13 Income taxes
Tax expense comprises of current and deferred tax. Current tax comprises of the amount of tax for the period determined in 
accordance with the Income-tax Act, 1961 and the rules framed there under. Deferred taxes reflect the impact of timing differences 
between taxable income and accounting income for the current year and reversal of timing differences of earlier years and carry 
forward losses. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for the future tax consequences of timing differences between 
the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and operating loss carry forwards. Deferred tax assets 
and liabilities are measured using the enacted or substantively enacted tax rates at the balance sheet date. The impact of changes 
in deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent there is reasonable certainty that the assets can be realised in future. 
Deferred tax assets in case of unabsorbed depreciation/ losses are recognised only if there is virtual certainty that such deferred 
tax asset can be realised against future taxable profits. Deferred tax assets are recognised and reassessed at each balance 
sheet date based upon management’s judgement and appropriately adjusted to reflect the amount that is reasonably certain 
to be realised.
17.4.14 Provisions and contingent assets/liabilities
In accordance with AS-29, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, the Bank creates a provision when there is a 
present obligation as a result of a past event that probably requires an outflow of resources and a reliable estimate can be made 
of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. If it is no longer probable 
that an outflow of resources would be required to settle the obligation, the provision is reversed.
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events whose existence will be confirmed by the occurrence 
or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Bank or a present obligation that 
arises from past events that is not recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle 
the obligation or a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation cannot be made. The Bank does not recognise a contingent 
liability but discloses its existence in the financial statements.
Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements. However, contingent assets are assessed continually and if it is 
virtually certain that an inflow of economic benefits will arise, the asset and related income are recognised in the period in which 
the change occurs.
17.4.15 Cash and Cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, including foreign currency notes, balances with RBI, balances with other banks 
and money at call and short notice.
17.4.16 Corporate social responsibility
Expenditure towards corporate social responsibility, in accordance with Companies Act, 2013, are recognised in the Profit 
and Loss account.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
374
YES BANK LIMITED
17.4.17 Debit and credit cards reward points
The Bank estimates the probable redemption of debit and credit card reward points and cost per point using actuarial valuation 
method by employing an independent actuary, which includes assumptions such as mortality, redemption and spends.
Provisions for liabilities on said reward points are made based on the actuarial valuation report as furnished by the said 
independent actuary and included in other liabilities.
17.4.18 Bullion
The Bank imports bullion (gold and silver bars) on a consignment basis for selling to its customers. The imports are typically based 
on a request of the client and are settled based on a back to back price fixing with supplier and client. The Bank earns a fee on such 
bullion transactions. The fee is classified in other income. The Bank also deals in gold borrowing and lending and the interest paid/
received thereon is classified as interest expense / income respectively.
17.4.19 Share issue expenses
Share issue expenses are adjusted from Share Premium Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
17.4.20 Segment information
The disclosure relating to segment information is in accordance with AS-17, Segment Reporting and as per guidelines issued by 
RBI from time to time.
17.4.21 Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs)
The Bank, in accordance with RBI circular FIDD.CO.Plan.BC.23/ 04.09.01/2015-16 dated April 7, 2016, trades in priority sector 
portfolio by selling or buying PSLCs. There is no transfer of risks or loan assets in these transactions. The fees paid/received for 
purchase/sale of PSLCs is amortised in the complete quarter of purchase/sale of PSLC on a straight line basis over the life of 
the certificate.
17.5 Capital
17.5.1 Equity Issue
During the year ended March 31, 2025 the Bank has allotted:
A.	
2,559,761,818 equity shares of ` 2/- each pursuant to exercise of share warrants, and
B.	
26,471,398 equity shares (Previous year: 13,106,772 equity shares) of face value of ` 2 each pursuant to the exercise of 
stock options by employees under the approved stock option schemes.
Movement in Share Capital
(` in million)
 Share Capital
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Opening Share Capital
57,535.76
 57,509.55
Addition due to exercise of Stock Option
 52.94
 26.21
Addition due to shares issued on a preferential basis
 5,119.52
 -
Closing Share Capital
 62,708.23
 57,535.76
The Bank has accreted ` 33,198.83 million during the year ended March 31, 2025 (Previous year: ` 173.58 million) 
towards share premium.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
375
375
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.5.2 Share Warrants Subscription Money
Share warrants at March 31, 2024 represents 2,559,761,818 share warrants convertible into equity shares of face value ` 2 each 
paid up to the extent of 25% of the issue price of ` 14.82 per share warrant on a preferential basis in an equal ratio to two marquee 
investors totaling to ` 9,483.92 million allotted by the Bank during FY2023. Each Share Warrant was convertible to one fully paid 
equity share of the Bank, upon exercise of the option by paying the remaining 75% within 18 months of allotment.
During the year ended March 31, 2025 the Bank has allotted 2,559,761,818 equity shares of ` 2/- each pursuant to exercise of 
share warrants by both the allottees for 1,279,880,909 equity shares to each allotee upon receipt of ` 28,451.75 million that 
represents 75% of the issue price of ` 14.82 per share warrant. Resultantly, the share capital and share premium had increased 
by ` 5,119.52 million and ` 32,816.15 million respectively.
17.5.3 Proposed Dividend
During the year ended March 31, 2025 and year ended March 31, 2024 the Bank has not declared any dividend on equity shares.
17.5.4 Capital Reserve
Profit on sale of investments in the Held to Maturity (HTM) category is credited to the Profit and Loss Account and thereafter 
appropriated to capital reserve (net of applicable taxes and transfer to statutory reserve requirements). During the year ended 
March 31, 2025 ` 421.00 million (Previous year: ` 262.64 million) was transferred to Capital Reserve.
17.5.5 Investment Reserve
The balance in Investment Reserve Account as on March 31, 2024, ` 1,016.84 million was transferred to General reserve account 
in compliance with RBI’s Master Direction on Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio of Commercial Banks 
(Directions), 2023 dated September 12, 2023.
17.5.6 Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
The Bank has not created or utilised any Cash Flow Hedge Reserve during the year ended March 31, 2025 (Previous year: Nil).
17.5.7 Investment Fluctuation Reserve (IFR)
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has transferred ` 2,557.27 million (net of applicable taxes and transfer to 
statutory reserve requirements) to Investment Fluctuation Reserve (Previous year: ` 472.30 million).
17.5.8 Employee Stock Option Reserve
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has recognised ` 675.76 million (Previous year: ` 312.56 million) to Employee 
Stock Options Reserve on account of fair valuation of share-linked instruments. During the year ended March 31, 2025, on 
exercise of share-linked instruments, an amount of ` 70.84 million (Previous year: ` 27.84 million) is transferred from Employees 
Stock Options Reserve to share premium and on account of lapsed/cancelled vested options, an amount of ` 13.36 million 
(Previous year: Nil) is transferred from Employees Stock Options Reserve to General Reserve.
17.5.9 Other Reserves:
A.	
Revenue and Other reserves
	
With respect to six accounts classified as fraud the Bank has debited ` 6.45 million from Revenue and other Reserves on 
account of unamortised fraud provision in terms of RBI circular DOR.No.STR.REC.55/21.04.048/2021-22 dated October 1, 
2021 (Previous year: for five borrower accounts, unamortised fraud provision amounting to ` 25.83 million debited).
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
376
YES BANK LIMITED
B.	
AFS reserves
	
Pursuant to RBI circular reference number RBI/DOR/2023-24/104 Ref.No. DOR.MRG.36/21.04.141/2023-24 dated 
September 12, 2023 “Master Direction - Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio of Commercial 
Banks (Directions), 2023”as amended from time to time, the Bank has transferred ` 1,664.63 million (net of tax) (Previous 
year: Nil) during the year ended March 31, 2025.
C.	
General Reserves
	
During the year ended March 31, 2025 the Bank has transferred ` 2,278.09 million (Previous year: Nil) to General reserve. 
This comprises of ` 1,247.89 million (net of tax) on account of transition gain, ` 1,016.84 million (net of tax) on account of 
transfer from Investment Reserve Account to General Reserve in compliance with the RBI circular dated September 12, 
2023. Further, an amount of ` 13.36 million (Previous year: Nil) is transferred from Employees Stock Options Reserve to 
General Reserve, in respect of vested employee stock options/units that have lapsed.
17.5.10 Capital Adequacy Ratio
Capital Adequacy Ratio as per RBI guidelines as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are given below:
(` in million)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
 i)
Common Equity Tier 1 capital (CET 1) (net of deductions, if any)
408,070.63
347,270.77
ii)
Additional Tier 1 capital
-
-
iii)
Tier 1 capital (i + ii)
408,070.63
347,270.77
iv)
Tier 2 capital
 64,189.56
90,646.47
v)
Total capital (Tier 1+Tier 2)
 472,260.19
437,917.24
vi)
Total Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs)
 3,018,375.20
2,851,610.85
vii)
CET 1 Ratio (CET 1 as a percentage of RWAs)
13.5%
12.2%
viii)
Tier 1 Ratio (Tier 1 capital as a percentage of RWAs)
13.5%
12.2%
ix)
Tier 2 Ratio (Tier 2 capital as a percentage of RWAs)
2.1%
3.2%
x)
Capital to Risk Weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR) (Total Capital as a percentage of RWAs)
15.6%
15.4%
xi)
Leverage Ratio
7.7%
7.0%
xii)
Percentage of the shareholding of Government of India
 Nil
Nil
xiii)
Amount of paid-up equity capital raised during the year
 5,172.47
26.21
xiv)
Amount of non-equity Tier 1 capital raised during the year
 Nil
Nil
xv)
Amount of Tier 2 capital raised during the year
 Nil
Nil
17.5.11 Tier I and Tier II Capital
During the year ended March 31, 2025 and year ended March 31, 2024, the Bank has not issued any Tier I or Tier II instruments. 
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has not repaid any Additional Tier-I capital (Previous year repaid Additional Tier-I 
capital of ` 2,800.00 million).
Write Down of AT1 Bonds
On March 5, 2020, Central Government in terms of Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (“BR Act”) imposed moratorium 
on the Bank. Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) in exercise of its powers conferred under Section 36ACA of the BR Act superseded the 
then Board of Directors and appointed an Administrator to manage the affairs of the Bank w.e.f. March 5, 2020. Subsequently on 
March 13, 2020, through the ‘YES Bank Limited Reconstruction Scheme, 2020’ (“the Yes Bank Reconstruction Scheme”), the 
relevant authorities (i.e., Central Government in consultation with RBI) decided to “reconstitute” the Bank. Further, in terms of the 
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
377
377
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Yes Bank Reconstruction Scheme, the Administrator was to continue in office until the Board of Directors mentioned in the Yes 
Bank Reconstruction Scheme assumed office, i.e., on March 26, 2020.
In light of the above, the Administrator, on behalf of the Bank, consequent to the invocation of Section 45 of the BR Act, and 
to protect the interest of the Bank and its depositors, was constrained to write down (` 84,150 million) two tranches of the 
Additional Tier 1 Bonds (“AT-1 Bonds”) issued in 2016 and 2017, in compliance with the contractual covenants and applicable RBI 
guidelines, on March 14, 2020.
Aggrieved by the said write down of AT-1 Bonds, AT-1 Bondholders filed various writ petition(s), civil suit(s), criminal and consumer 
complaint(s) across India challenging the decision of the Bank to write down the AT-1 Bonds since 2020. The same are pending 
adjudication, save and except the batch of writ petition(s) filed before the Hon’ble Bombay High Court and one writ petition before 
the Hon’ble Madras High Court (as mentioned below).
Judgment dated September 30, 2020 of the Hon’ble Madras High Court (“MHC”):
The RBI Master Circular on Basel III Capital Regulations, in so far as it relates to issuance and write down of AT-1 Bonds, was 
challenged before the Division Bench of the Hon’ble MHC in the Writ Petition titled Piyush Bokaria Vs. Reserve Bank of India and 
Ors., (being W.P. (Civil) 12586 of 2020). The Hon’ble MHC vide its judgment dated September 30, 2020 upheld the validity of the 
RBI Master Circular in relation to the AT-1 Bonds. Additionally, with respect to the aspect of writing down of AT-1 Bonds, the 
Hon’ble MHC observed that one of the features of AT-1 Bonds is that they can be written-down before the equity shares bear 
losses and considering that the Petitioners purchased the AT -1 Bonds in the secondary market, they cannot claim to be ignorant 
of the terms and conditions thereof. The Hon’ble MHC also noted the loss absorbency feature of the AT-1 Bonds and dismissed 
the Writ Petition.
Judgment dated January 20, 2023 of the Hon’ble Bombay High Court (“BHC”):
Multiple writ petition(s) were filed before the Hon’ble BHC challenging the write down of AT-1 Bonds and the stock exchange 
intimation dated March 14, 2020 made in relation to the write down. The Hon’ble BHC vide its judgment dated January 20, 2023 
set aside the stock exchange intimation and decision of the Bank to write down the AT-1 Bonds (“Judgment”). At the request of 
the Bank, the Hon’ble BHC stayed the order for a period of 6 (six) weeks.
Proceedings before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India (“Supreme Court”):
Aggrieved by the Judgment of the Hon’ble BHC, the Bank, the RBI and the Central Government have filed separate Special Leave 
Petition(s) (“SLPs”) before the Hon’ble Supreme Court challenging the Judgement of the Hon’ble BHC. On March 3, 2023, the 
Hon’ble Supreme Court issued notice and extended the stay granted by the Hon’ble BHC, subject to the final orders of the Hon’ble 
Supreme Court. The SLPs are pending hearing.
Given that the write down of the AT-1 Bonds was in accordance with the relevant regulations and as RBI and Central Government 
(“relevant authorities” in terms of the RBI Master Circular) have also filed SLPs challenging the Judgement of Hon’ble BHC, the 
Bank has estimated that there should not be any material financial impact of the matter under litigation. Upon final verdict of the 
Hon’ble Supreme Court, financial impact, if any, on the results and/or other financial information shall be accounted for in future 
reporting periods. The matter was last listed on February 19, 2025 wherein the Hon’ble Supreme Court was pleased to grant 
leave and is now tentatively scheduled for hearing on July 24, 2025.
Separately, Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) issued a Show Cause Notice dated October 28, 2020 to the Bank and 
other noticee(s) (ex-employees of the Bank) alleging violation of provisions of SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003. Thereafter, SEBI vide its order dated April 12, 2021 imposed penalty 
of ` 250 million on the Bank under Section 15 HA of Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 for the alleged mis-selling 
of AT-1 Bonds in the secondary market. SEBI also imposed penalties on other noticee(s). Aggrieved by the above-mentioned 
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
378
YES BANK LIMITED
SEBI order, the Bank and other noticee(s) preferred separate Appeal(s) before the Hon’ble Securities Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai 
(“SAT”). SAT heard the Appeal(s) and the effect and operation of the SEBI order dated April 12, 2021 has been stayed. The said 
Appeal(s) are pending final hearing.
17.5.12 Provisions and Contingencies
The breakup of provisions of the Bank for the year ended March 31, 2025 and year ended March 31, 2024 are given below:
 (` in million)
Particulars
 For the year ended
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Provision for taxation@
 7,624.86
 2,488.99
Provision for non performing investments$
 (17,374.25)
 (5,425.77)
Provision for standard advances
 (1,790.31)
 (1,011.48)
Provision made/write off for non performing advances
 28,787.16
 24,382.31
Other Provisions*
 1,233.46
 917.77
TOTAL
 18,480.92
 21,351.82
@ Details in note 17.5.42
$ Includes income received from securitization trusts
* Other Provisions includes provision made against other assets
FY2025
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has transferred 67,765 stressed loans of gross value ` 5,062.71 million to 
Asset Reconstruction Companies (ARCs). The net book value (‘NBV’) of these exposures in the Bank’s books as on the date off 
assignment was Nil and the final consideration received was ` 278.20 million under “100% upfront cash basis.” The realised profit 
amounting ` 278.20 million due to cash recovery exceeding the net book value of stressed loans was credited to Profit and Loss 
Account during the year ended March 31, 2025.
FY2024
During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Bank has transferred two stressed loans of gross value ` 6,903.20 million to ARCs. 
The net book value (‘NBV’) of these exposures in the Bank’s books as on the date of assignment was ` 1,420.84 million and the 
final consideration received was ` 3,364.00 million under “100% upfront cash basis.” The realised profit amounting ` 1,943.16 
million due to cash recovery exceeding the net book value of stressed loans was credited to Profit and Loss Account during the 
year ended March 31, 2024.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
379
379
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.5.13 Investments
I)	
Composition of Investment Portfolio
Composition of Investment Portfolio as at March 31, 2025 is given below:
(` in million)
Investments in India
Investments outside India
Total 
Investments
Government 
Securities
Other 
approved 
securities
Shares
Debentures 
and Bonds
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
investments 
in India
Government 
securities 
(including local 
authorities)
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
Investments 
outside 
India
Held to Maturity
Gross
564,093.46
-
-
4,500.00
-
-
568,593.46
-
-
-
-
568,593.46
Less: Provision for 
nonperforming 
investments (NPI)*
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
564,093.46
-
-
4,500.00
-
-
568,593.46
-
-
-
-
568,593.46
Available for Sale
Gross
126,336.18
-
2,459.35
24,215.56
-
-
153,011.09
12,281.85
-
29.16
12,311.01
165,322.10
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
-
-
(190.40)
-
-
-
(190.40)
-
-
-
-
(190.40)
Net
126,336.18
-
2,268.95
24,215.56
-
-
152,820.69
12,281.85
-
29.16
12,311.01
165,131.70
FVTPL (non-HFT) #
Gross
-
-
100.00
1,070.55
-
42,823.95
43,994.50
-
-
363.27
363.27
44,357.77
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI*
-
-
(50.00)
-
-
(42,184.78)
(42,234.78)
-
-
(363.27)
(363.27)
(42,598.05)
Net
-
-
50.00
1,070.55
-
639.17
1,759.72
-
-
-
-
1,759.72
Held for Trading
Gross
63,406.45
-
148.67
26,232.56
-
21,784.50
111,572.18
-
-
-
-
111,572.18
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
63,406.45
-
148.67
26,232.56
-
21,784.50
111,572.18
-
-
-
-
111,572.18
Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures #
Gross
-
-
-
-
3,987.78
-
3,987.78
-
-
-
-
3,987.78
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
-
-
-
3,987.78
-
3,987.78
-
-
-
-
3,987.78
Total Investments
753,836.09
-
2,708.02
56,018.67
3,987.78
64,608.45
881,159.01
12,281.85
-
392.43
12,674.28
893,833.29
Less: Provision for non-
performing investments
-
-
(240.40)
-
-
(18.35)
(258.75)
-
-
(363.27)
(363.27)
(622.02)
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI*
-
-
-
-
-
(42,166.43)
(42,166.43)
-
-
-
-
(42,166.43)
Net
753,836.09
-
2,467.62
56,018.67
3,987.78
22,423.67
838,733.83
12,281.85
-
29.16
12,311.01
851,044.83
*Amount includes provision due to permanent diminution in value of Investments.
#New Separate category introduced in RBI revised Master circular
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
380
YES BANK LIMITED
Composition of Investment Portfolio as at March 31, 2024 is given below:
(` in million)
Investments in India
Investments outside India
Government 
Securities
Other 
approved 
securities
Shares
Debentures 
and Bonds
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
investments 
in India
Government 
securities 
(including local 
authorities)
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
Investments 
outside 
India
Total 
Investments
Held to Maturity
Gross
647,714.14
-
-
15,950.00
2,490.00
296.63
666,450.77
-
-
-
-
666,450.77
Less: Provision for 
nonperforming 
investments (NPI)*
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
647,714.14
-
-
15,950.00
2,490.00
296.63
666,450.77
-
-
-
-
666,450.77
Available for Sale
-
-
Gross
114,594.05
-
1,411.83
34,801.69
-
58,216.89
209,024.46
7,806.35
-
861.56
8,667.91
217,692.37
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
(240.38)
-
(261.43)
(246.64)
-
(45,260.91)
(46,009.36)
(0.00)
-
(845.78)
(845.78)
(46,855.14)
Net
114,353.67
-
1,150.40
34,555.05
-
12,955.98
163,015.10
7,806.35
-
15.78
7,822.13
170,837.23
Held for Trading
-
Gross
44,138.49
-
124.10
9,492.04
-
11,308.69
65,063.32
-
-
-
-
65,063.32
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
44,138.49
-
124.10
9,492.04
-
11,308.69
65,063.32
-
-
-
-
65,063.32
Total Investments
806,446.68
-
1,535.93
60,243.73
2,490.00
69,822.21
940,538.55
7,806.35
-
861.56
8,667.91
949,206.46
Less: Provision for non 
performing investments
-
-
(245.83)
-
-
-
(245.83)
-
-
(854.90)
(854.90)
(1,100.73)
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI#
(240.38)
-
(15.61)
(246.63)
-
(45,260.91)
(45,763.53)
-
-
9.12
9.12
(45,754.41)
Net
806,206.30
-
1,274.49
59,997.10
2,490.00
24,561.30
894,529.19
7,806.35
-
15.78
7,822.13
902,351.32
* Amount includes provision due to permanent diminution in value of Investments.
# Provision on investments is considered based on investment classification as required by RBI Master Direction on Investments.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
381
381
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Transitional Disclosure:
In compliance with the RBI Investment Master Directions, the Bank has implemented changes relating to classification, 
measurement, and valuation of investments with effect from April 1, 2024. Consequently, the Bank has accounted net transition 
valuation gain of ` 1,247.89 million (net of tax) in General Reserve (included in “General Reserves”), resulting into net positive impact 
on net worth of the Bank on transition. The Bank has also transferred balance in Investment Reserve amounting to ` 1,016.84 
million on the date of the transition to General Reserve (included in “General Reserves”) in compliance with these Directions.
Subsequent changes in fair value of performing investments under Available For Sale (‘AFS’) and Fair Value Through Profit and 
Loss (‘FVTPL’) (including Held for Trading (‘HFT’)) categories have been recognised through AFS reserve and Profit and Loss 
account respectively. Accordingly, the amounts for periods pertaining to previous financial year are not comparable.
II) 	
Movement of Provisions for Depreciation and Investment Fluctuation Reserve
 (` in million)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
i)
Movement of provisions held towards depreciation on investments
a)
Opening balance
 46,855.14
 46,642.05
b)
Add: Provisions made during the year
 10,742.52
9,857.93
c)
Less: Write off / write back of excess provisions during the year
 14,809.21
 9,644.85
d)
Closing balance
 42,788.45
 46,855.14
ii)
Movement of Investment Fluctuation Reserve
a)
Opening balance
 4,718.01
 4,245.72
b)
Add: Amount transferred during the year
 2,557.27
 472.30
c)
Less: Drawdown
 -
 -
d)
Closing balance
 7,275.28
 4,718.01
iii)
Closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of net investments in AFS 
and FVTPL (including HFT)
2.61%
2.00%
III)	
Sales and transfers of securities to/from Held to Maturity (HTM) category
	
During the year ended March 31, 2025 and year ended March 31, 2024, the Bank has not sold and transferred securities from 
HTM category exceeding 5% of the book value of investment held in HTM category at the beginning of the year. Hence, in 
line with RBI guidelines, specific disclosures on book value, market value, and provisions if any, relating to such sale and 
transfers are not made.
	
The 5% threshold referred to above does not include onetime transfer of securities to/from HTM category with the approval of 
Board of Directors permitted to be undertaken by banks as per extant RBI guidelines, sale of securities under pre-announced 
Open Market Operation (OMO)/switch operations auction to the RBI, repurchase of securities under buyback/switch 
operations by Government of India (GoI), repurchase of state development loans by respective state Government under 
buyback/switch operations, additional shifting of securities explicitly permitted by the RBI and sale of securities or transfer 
to AFS / HFT consequent to the reduction of ceiling on SLR securities under HTM.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
382
YES BANK LIMITED
IV)	
Repo Transactions
	
The details of securities sold and purchased under repos and reverse repos during the years ended March 31, 2025:
	
in face value terms:
(` in million)
Minimum 
outstanding 
during the year
Maximum 
outstanding 
during the year
Daily average 
outstanding 
during the year
 As at
March 31, 2025
i) 	
Securities sold under repos
	
a) 	
Government Securities
1,817.30
104,357.34
30,567.82
10,711.66
	
b) 	
Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
	
c) 	
Any other securities
-
-
-
-
ii) 	
Security purchased under reverse repo
	
a) 	
Government Securities
50.00
89,341.38
17,643.47
41,906.42
	
b) 	
Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
	
c) 	
Any other securities
-
-
-
-
	
in market value terms:
(` in million)
Minimum 
outstanding 
during the year
Maximum 
outstanding 
during the year
Daily average 
outstanding 
during the year
As at
March31, 2025
i) 	
Securities sold under repos
	
a) 	
Government Securities
1,872.20
105,645.95
30,818.85
11,040.08
	
b) 	
Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
	
c) 	
Any other securities
-
-
-
-
ii) 	
Security purchased under reverse repo
	
a) 	
Government Securities
51.30
87,663.84
17,290.95
41,117.00
	
b) 	
Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
	
c) 	
Any other securities
-
-
-
-
The above tables represents the face value/market value of securities sold and purchased under repos, triparty repos 
(TREPS), reverse repos with interbank counterparties. It also includes securities sold and purchased under Liquidity Adjusted 
Facility (LAF) and Marginal Standing Facility (MSF) with RBI.
	
The details of securities sold and purchased under repos and reverse repos during the year ended March 31, 2024:
	
in face value terms:
(` in million)
Minimum 
outstanding 
during the year
Maximum 
outstanding 
during the year
Daily average 
outstanding 
during the year
As at
March 31, 2024
i) 	
Securities sold under repos
	
a) 	
Government Securities
 21,362.25
 197,864.76
 97,295.73
 21,362.25
	
b) 	
Corporate debt securities
 -
 -
 -
 -
	
c) 	
Any other securities
 -
 -
 -
 -
ii) 	
Security purchased under reverse repo
	
a) 	
Government Securities
 50.00
189,131.16
36,079.95
-
	
b) 	
Corporate debt securities
 -
 -
 -
 -
	
c) 	
Any other securities
-
 -
-
-
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
383
383
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
in market value terms:
(` in million)
Minimum 
outstanding 
during the year
Maximum 
outstanding 
during the year
Daily average 
outstanding 
during the year
As at
March31, 2024
i) 	
Securities sold under repos
	
a) 	
Government Securities
21,443.61
175,766.91
95,679.59
21,443.61
	
b) 	
Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
	
c) 	
Any other securities
-
-
-
-
ii) 	
Security purchased under reverse repo
	
a) 	
Government Securities
49.90
176,221.29
32,785.96
-
	
b) 	
Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
	
c) 	
Any other securities
-
-
-
-
	
The above tables represents the face value/market value of securities sold and purchased under repos, triparty repos 
(TREPS), reverse repos with interbank counterparties. It also includes securities sold and purchased under Liquidity Adjusted 
Facility (LAF) and Marginal Standing Facility (MSF) with RBI.
V)	
Government Security Lending (GSL) transactions (in market value terms)
	
The Bank has not done any GSL transactions during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
17.5.14 Non-SLR Investment Portfolio
i.	
Issuer composition of Non SLR investments
	
Issuer composition of Non SLR investments as at March 31, 2025 is given below:
(` in million)
Sr 
No
Issuer
Amount
Extent of 
private 
placement
Extent of ‘below 
investment 
grade’ securities
Extent of 
‘unrated’ 
securities#
Extent of 
‘unlisted’ 
securities*
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
i)
PSUs
-
-
-
-
-
ii)
Financial Institutions
 43,031.67
40,470.97
-
-
14.41
iii)
Banks
5,523.32
200.56
-
-
5,174.10
iv)
Private Corporates
31,955.27
31,104.59
50.00
40.84
4,502.15
v)
Subsidiaries/ Joint ventures
3,987.78
3,987.78
-
-
3,987.78
vi)
Others
55,499.14
43,187.21
-
1,460.00
43,187.21
vii)
Provision held towards depreciation**
(42,788.45)
-
-
-
-
Total
97,208.73
118,951.11
50.00
1,500.84
56,865.65
	
* Of the investments disclosed ` 56,815.65 million are exempted from applicability of RBI prudential limit for Unlisted Non-SLR securities.
	
# Excludes investment in equity shares & units, non-Indian government securities by IBU and non-SLR government of India securities
	
** Includes a provision of ` 622.02 million held for non performing investments
	
Amounts reported under columns (4), (5), (6) and (7) above are not mutually exclusive.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
384
YES BANK LIMITED
	
Issuer composition of Non SLR investments as at March 31, 2024 is given below:
(` in million)
Sr No
Issuer
Amount
Extent of 
private 
placement
Extent of ‘below 
investment 
grade’ securities
Extent of 
‘unrated’ 
securities#
Extent of 
‘unlisted’ 
securities*
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
i)
PSUs
56.54
-
-
-
-
ii)
Financial Institutions
 39,670.35
 39,179.61
 -
-
14.41
iii)
Banks
 -
 -
 -
-
-
iv)
Private Corporates
 33,336.71
 31,775.03
 50.00
58.10
2,341.97
v)
Subsidiaries/ Joint ventures
 2,490.00
 2,490.00
 -
-
2,490.00
vi)
Others
 67,206.17
 59,368.42
 -
993.63
59,368.42
vii)
Provision held towards depreciation**
(46,614.76)
-
-
-
-
Total
96,145.01
132,813.06
50.00
1,051.73
64,214.80
	
* Of the investments disclosed ` 64,164.80 million are exempted from applicability of RBI prudential limit for Unlisted Non-SLR securities.
	
# Excludes investment in equity shares & units, non-Indian government securities by IBU and non-SLR government of India securities
	
** Includes a provision of ` 1,100.73 million held for non performing investments
	
Amounts reported under columns (4), (5), (6) and (7) above are not mutually exclusive.
ii.	
Non-Performing Non SLR Investments
(` in million)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening Balance
1,100.73
1,716.50
Additions during the year
18.35
 -
Reductions during the year
497.06
 615.77
Closing Balance
622.02
 1,100.73
Total Provision Held
622.02
1,100.73
17.5.15 Derivatives
Forward Rate Agreement/ Interest Rate Swap
The details of Forward Rate Agreements / Interest Rate Swaps outstanding as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are given below:
(` in million)
Sr. 
No
Items
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
i)
The notional principal of swap agreements3
3,753,560.42
2,614,541.64
ii)
Losses which would be incurred if counterparties failed to fulfill their obligations under 
the agreements1
4,913.26
5,038.16
iii)
Collateral required by the bank upon entering into swaps
-
-
iv)
Concentration of credit risk arising from the swaps [Percentage Exposure to Banks] 
12.82%
0.06%
[Percentage Exposure to PSUs] 1
 82.60%
98.12%
[Percentage Exposure to Others] 1
4.57%
1.82%
v)
The fair value of the swap book 2
3.80
100.15
-	
INBMK
(116.33)
(236.24)
-	
MIBOR
169.50
80.02
-	
MOD M
(609.93)
(266.08)
-	
FCY IRS
558.03
522.45
-	
BOND FRA
2.53
-
1 Losses and Credit risk concentration are measured as net receivable under swap contracts
2 Fair values represent net mark-to-market including accrued interest
3 Notional Value of SWAP agreement include BOND FRA nominal.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
385
385
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The nature and terms of the Rupee IRS as on March 31, 2025 are set out below:
(` in million)
Nature
Nos.
Notional Principal
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
 5
8,000.00
INBMK
Fixed Payable V/S Floating Receivable
Trading
2,614
777,603.10
MIBOR
Fixed Payable V/S Floating Receivable
Trading
 315
265,205.76
MOD M
Fixed Payable V/S Floating Receivable
Trading
2,900
790,479.21
MIBOR
Fixed Receivable V/S Floating Payable
Trading
341
279,383.66
MOD M
Fixed Receivable V/S Floating Payable
The nature and terms of the FCY IRS as on March 31, 2025 are set out below:
(` in million)
Nature
Nos.
Notional Principal
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
1,103
670,866.78
USD SOFR
Fixed Receivable V/S Floating Payable
Trading
1,056
694,938.14
USD SOFR
Fixed Payable V/S Floating Receivable
Trading
44
110,482.80
USD SOFR
Floating Payable V/S Floating Receivable
Trading
1
213.69
USD FEDFU
Floating Payable V/S Fixed Receivable
Trading
6
56,185.33
JPY TONAR
Fixed Receivable V/S Floating Payable
Trading
19
57,677.33
JPY TONAR
Fixed Payable V/S Floating Receivable
Trading
13
11,358.08
GBP SONIA
Fixed Payable V/S Floating Receivable
Trading
18
13,302.01
GBP SONIA
Fixed Receivable V/S Floating Payable
Trading
19
3,800.00
EURIBOR
Fixed Payable V/S Floating Receivable
Trading
63
4,500.80
EURIBOR
Fixed Receivable V/S Floating Payable
Trading
12
4,699.91
EUR ESTR
Fixed Payable V/S Floating Receivable
Trading
5
3,913.82
EUR ESTR
Fixed Receivable V/S Floating Payable
The nature and terms of the Rupee IRS as on March 31, 2024 are set out below:
(` in million)
Nature
Nos.
Notional Principal Benchmark
Terms
Trading
6
9,000.00 INBMK
Fixed Payable V/S Floating Receivable
Trading
2,313
681,006.40 MIBOR
Fixed Payable V/S Floating Receivable
Trading
98
68,640.31 MOD M
Fixed Payable V/S Floating Receivable
Trading
2,445
699,410.72 MIBOR
Fixed Receivable V/S Floating Payable
Trading
160
94,183.66 MOD M
Fixed Receivable V/S Floating Payable
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
386
YES BANK LIMITED
The nature and terms of the FCY IRS as on March 31, 2024 are set out below:
(` in million)
Nature
Nos.
Notional Principal Benchmark
Terms
Trading
767
470,380.08 USD SOFR
Fixed Payable V/S Floating Receivable
Trading
754
423,607.46 USD SOFR
Fixed Receivable V/S Floating Payable
Trading
55
126,811.00 USD SOFR
Floating Payable V/S Fixed Receivable
Trading
1
208.51 USD FED
Floating Payable V/S Fixed Receivable
Trading
3
1,002.86 JPY TONAR
Fixed Payable V/S Floating Receivable
Trading
1
82.60 JPY TONAR
Fixed Receivable V/S Floating Payable
Trading
18
15,529.06 GBP SONIA
Fixed Payable V/S Floating Receivable
Trading
20
14,763.37 GBP SONIA
Fixed Receivable V/S Floating Payable
Trading
20
5,457.14 EURIBOR
Fixed Payable V/S Floating Receivable
Trading
52
3,771.50 EURIBOR
Fixed Receivable V/S Floating Payable
Trading
3
359.51 EUR ESTR
Fixed Payable V/S Floating Receivable
Trading
1
314.57 EUR ESTR
Fixed Receivable V/S Floating Payable
Trading
1
12.89 AUD BBSW
Fixed Receivable V/S Floating Payable
17.5.16 Net Overnight Open Position (NOOP)
NOOP as at March 31, 2025 is ` 6,719.03 million (Previous year: ` 701.47 million).
17.5.17 Exchange Traded Interest Rate Derivatives
The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, the details of exchange traded interest rate derivatives:
 (` in million)
Sr. 
No
Particulars
For the period ended 
March 31, 2025
For the period ended 
March 31, 2024
1
Notional Principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives undertaken during 
the year:
-
-
2
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding:
-
-
3
Notional Principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding and 
not “highly effective”
-
-
4
Mark-to-Market value of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding and not 
“highly effective”
-
-
17.5.18 Currency Futures
The Bank had dealt in exchange traded currency forwards (Futures) during the year ended March 31, 2025 and financial year 
ended March 31, 2024. There were Nil open contracts on the exchange at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
17.5.19 Disclosures on risk exposure in derivatives
As per RBI Master circular DOR.ACC.REC.No.45/21.04.018/2021-22 dated August 30, 2021, the following disclosures are being 
made with respect to risk exposure in derivatives of the Bank:
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
387
387
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Qualitative disclosures:
a)	
Purpose: The Bank uses Derivatives including Forwards & swaps for various purposes including hedging its currency and 
interest rate risk in its balance sheet, customer offerings and proprietary trading. The management of these products and 
businesses is governed by Market Risk Policy, Investment Policy, Derivatives Policy, Derivatives Appropriateness Policy, 
Hedging Policy and Asset Liability Management (ALM) policy.
b)	
Structure: The Board of Directors of the Bank have constituted a Board level sub-committee, the Risk Management 
Committee (‘RMC’) and delegated to it all functions and responsibilities relating to the risk management policy of the Bank 
and its supervision thereof.
c)	
As part of prudent business and risk management practice, the Bank has also instituted a comprehensive limit and control 
structure encompassing Value-at-Risk (VAR), Sensitivity, Greeks, Stop loss & credit limits for derivative transactions including 
suitability and appropriateness framework. The Bank has an internal reporting mechanism providing regular reports to the 
RMC as well as to the management of the Bank. Such a structure helps the Bank to monitor and mitigate market risk across 
FX and interest rates.
d)	
The Bank has an independent Middle Office and Market Risk functions, which are responsible for monitoring, measurement, 
and analysis of derivative related risks, among others. The Bank has a Credit Risk Management unit which is responsible 
for setting up counterparty limits and also a treasury operation unit which is responsible for managing operational aspects 
of derivatives including settlement of transactions. The Bank is subject to a concurrent audit for all treasury transactions, 
including derivatives transactions, a monthly report of which is periodically submitted to the Audit & Compliance 
Committee of the Bank.
e)	
In addition to the above, the Bank independently evaluates the potential credit exposure on account of all derivative 
transactions, wherein risk limits are specified separately for each product, in terms of both credit exposure and tenor. 
As mandated by the Credit Policy of the Bank, the Bank has instituted an approval structure for all treasury/derivative related 
credit exposures. Wherever necessary, appropriate credit covenants are stipulated as trigger events to call for collaterals or 
terminate transaction and contain the risks.
f)	
The Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts Act, 2020 (the Act), has been notified by the Government of India 
and subsequent to this the RBI through circular dated March 30, 2021 allowed netting of the Qualified Financial Contracts 
(QFC). In respect of derivative contracts, the Bank has computed the exposure under the Current Exposure Method for 
counterparty credit risk capital computation based on the guidelines issued by RBI on “Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial 
Contracts - Amendments to Prudential Guidelines” dated March 30, 2021 and subsequent amendments dated March 31, 
2022 and August 11, 2022 for eligible counterparties. There is no change in Current Exposure Method (CEM) computation 
for Non-Bilateral Counterparties & Quasi Central Counter Party (QCCP) trades.
g)	
The Bank reports all trading positions to the management on a daily basis. The Bank revalues its trading position on a daily 
basis for Management and Information System (‘MIS’) and control purposes and records the same in the books of accounts 
on a monthly basis.
h)	
For derivative contracts in the banking book designated as hedge, the Bank documents at the inception of the relationship 
between the hedging instrument and the underlying exposure, the risk management objective for undertaking the hedge 
and the Asset Liability Committee (ALCO) monitors all outstanding hedges on a periodical basis. Further the Bank’s ‘Hedging 
Policy’ has stipulated conditions to ensure that the Hedges entered into are effective.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
388
YES BANK LIMITED
Quantitative disclosure:
The details of derivative transactions as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are given below:
(` in million)
Sr. 
No
Particulars
Currency derivatives 1
Interest rate derivatives 4
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
i)
Derivatives (Notional Principal Amount)
a)	
For hedging
-
-
-
-
b) 	
For trading
664,462.23
336,619.31
3,753,560.42
2,614,541.64
ii)
Marked to market positions2
a) 	
Asset (+)
8,997.83
9,754.01
28,316.43
28,765.50
b) 	
Liability (-)
9,236.74
12,081.69
28,312.50
28,665.35
iii)
Credit exposure3
31,572.68
23,756.75
64,301.16
116,053.13
iv)
Likely impact of one percentage change in interest 
rate (100*PV01)
(Refer Note 1&2 below)
a) 	
on hedging derivatives
-
-
-
-
b) 	
on trading derivatives
2,237.21
1,511.54
982.99
1,523.90
v)
Maximum and minimum of 100*PV01 observed 
during the year (Refer Note 1&2 below)
a) 	
on hedging
	
Maximum
-
-
-
5.02
	
Minimum
-
-
-
-
b) 	
on trading
	
Maximum
2,243.35
1,809.76
1,656.92
1,876.62
	
Minimum
1,242.49
573.43
982.99
238.61
1 Currency derivatives includes options purchased and sold, cross currency interest rate swaps and currency futures.
2 Trading portfolio including accrued interest.
3 Mark to Market for credit exposure includes accrued interest.
4 Interest rate derivatives include Interest Rate Swaps, forward rate agreements and exchange traded interest rate derivatives.
Note:
1)	
Denotes absolute value of loss which the Bank could suffer on account of a change in interest rates by 1% which however 
doesn’t capture the off-setting exposures between interest rate and currency derivatives.
2)	
PV01 exposures reported above may not necessarily indicate the interest rate risk the Bank is exposed to, given that PV01 
exposures in Investments (which may offset the PV01 reflected above) do not form part of the above table.
3)	
The notional principal amount of foreign exchange contracts classified as trading at March 31, 2025 amounted to 
` 6,041,458.27 million (previous year: ` 3,811,879.38 million). For these trading contracts, as on March 31, 2025, marked 
to market position was asset of ` 38,549.28 million (Previous year: ` 9,484.53 million) and liability of ` 42,781.18 million 
(Previous Year: ` 16,213.26 million). The notional principal amount of foreign exchange contracts classified as hedging at 
March 31, 2025 amounted to ` 149,616.34 million (previous year: ` 23,497.39 million). Credit exposure on forward exchange 
contracts at March 31, 2025 was ` 178,597.50 million (Previous Year: ` 101,064.49 million) of which exposure on The 
Clearing Corporation of India Limited (‘CCIL’) is ` 142,499.31 million (Previous Year: ` 82,054.38 million).
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
389
389
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Asset Quality
17.5.20 Non-Performing Advances
Classifications held for the period ended March 31, 2025
(` in million)
Standard
Non-Performing
Total
Total Standard 
Advances
Substandard
Doubtful
Loss
Total Non 
Performing 
Advances
Gross Standard Advances and NPAs
Opening Balance
2,264,697.41
19,404.03
11,463.32
8,958.24
39,825.59
2,304,523.00
Add: Additions during the year
50,903.51
-
Less: Reductions during the year*
51,372.97
-
Closing balance
2,453,883.31
18,801.98
9,357.68
11,196.46
39,356.12
2,493,239.43
*Reductions in Gross NPAs due to:
i) 	
Upgradation
11,422.97
ii) 	
Recoveries (excluding recoveries from 
upgraded accounts)
11,929.78
iii) 	
Technical/ Prudential Write-offs #
1,046.84
iv) 	
Write-offs other than those under (iii) 
above
26,973.38
Provisions (excluding Floating Provisions)
Opening balance of provisions held
16,733.34
10,215.91
7,379.97
8,932.40
26,528.28
43,261.62
Add: Fresh provisions made during the year
43,592.57
Less: Excess provision reversed/ Write-off loans
38,766.11
Closing balance of provisions held
14,943.03
13,303.86
6,860.86
11,190.02
31,354.74
46,297.77
Net NPAs
Opening Balance
9,188.12
4,083.35
25.83
13,297.31
Add: Fresh additions during the year
7,310.94
Less: Reductions during the year
12,606.86
Closing Balance
5,498.11
2,496.82
6.45^
8,001.38
8,001.38
Floating Provisions
Opening Balance
-
Add: Additional provisions made during the year
-
Less: Amount drawn down during the year
-
Closing balance of floating provisions
-
Technical write-offs and the recoveries made 
thereon#
Opening balance of Technical/ Prudential 
written-off accounts
24,304.18
Add: Technical/ Prudential write-offs during the 
year
1,046.84
Less: Recoveries made from previously 
technical/ prudential written-off accounts during 
the year*
-
Closing balance
25,351.02
# Technical write-offs excludes retail advances.
^ The amount pertains to unamortised fraud cases
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
390
YES BANK LIMITED
Classification of advances and provisions held for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in million)
Standard
Non-Performing
Total
Total Standard 
Advances
Substandard
Doubtful
Loss
Total Non 
Performing 
Advances
Gross Standard Advances and NPAs
Opening Balance
 2,016,113.53
 22,267.67  11,487.86  10,190.19
 43,945.72
 2,060,059.25
Add: Additions during the year
 53,340.37
Less: Reductions during the year*
 57,460.51
Closing balance
 2,264,697.41
 19,404.03  11,463.32
 8,958.24
 39,825.59
 2,304,523.00
*Reductions in Gross NPAs due to:
i) 	
Upgradation
 19,036.98
ii) 	
Recoveries (excluding recoveries from 
upgraded accounts) $
 10,803.31
iii) 	
Technical/ Prudential Write-offs #
 8,669.56
iv) 	
Write-offs other than those under (iii) above
 18,950.66
Provisions (excluding Floating Provisions)
Opening balance of provisions held
 17,744.82
 10,081.94
 7,092.69  10,190.19
 27,364.82
 45,109.63
Add: Fresh provisions made during the year
 36,159.67
Less: Excess provision reversed/ Write-off loans
 36,996.21
Closing balance of provisions held
 16,733.34
 10,215.91
 7,379.97
 8,932.40
 26,528.28
 43,261.62
Net NPAs
Opening Balance
 12,185.73
 4,395.17
 (0.00)
 16,580.90
Add: Fresh additions during the year
 17,180.70
Less: Reductions during the year
 20,464.30
Closing Balance
 9,188.12
 4,083.35
 25.83 ^
 13,297.31
 13,297.31
Floating Provisions
Opening Balance
 -
Add: Additional provisions made during the year
-
Less: Amount drawn down during the year
-
Closing balance of floating provisions
Technical write-offs and the recoveries made 
thereon#
Opening balance of Technical/ Prudential 
written-off accounts
 
 15,835.64
Add: Technical/ Prudential write-offs during the 
year
8,669.56
Less: Recoveries made from previously 
technical/ prudential written-off accounts during 
the year*
201.02
Closing balance
24,304.18
$ Includes loans sold to ARC
# Technical write-offs only includes corporate advances.
^ The amount pertains to unamortised fraud cases
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
391
391
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Ratios (in percentage terms)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Gross NPA to Gross Advances
1.6%
1.7%
Net NPA to Net Advances
0.3%
0.6%
Provision coverage ratio
79.7%
66.6%
17.5.21 Divergence in Asset Classification and Provisioning for NPAs
In terms of the RBI circular no. DOR.ACC.REC.No.74/21.04.018/2022-23 dated October 11, 2022 banks are required to disclose 
the divergences in asset classification and provisioning consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory process in their notes to accounts 
to the financial statements, wherever either or both of the following conditions are satisfied: (a) the additional provisioning for 
NPAs assessed by RBI exceeds 5 per cent of the reported profit before provisions and contingencies for the reference period and 
(b) the additional Gross NPAs identified by RBI exceed 5 per cent of the reported incremental Gross NPAs for the reference period.
Based on the condition mentioned in RBI circular, no disclosure on divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs is 
required with respect to RBI’s supervisory process for FY2024 and FY2023.
17.5.22 Disclosure as per requirement of Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets
Details of Resolution Plan (RP) implemented during the year under Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets 
dated June 07, 2019:
FY2025
Sr. 
No.
Description of Resolution Plan (RP)
No of cases
Aggregate Loan 
Outstanding (` in million)
1
Payment of overdues by the borrower (deemed implementation of RP as per RBI circular)
2
2,600.00*
2
Restructuring / change in ownership outside IBC
-
-
3
Resolution pursued under IBC
-
-
4
Assignment of debt / recovery proceedings
-
-
*Represents outstanding at the quarter end date in which the resolution plan was implemented
FY2024
Sr. 
No.
Description of Resolution Plan (RP)
No of cases
Aggregate Loan 
Outstanding (` in million)
1
Payment of overdues by the borrower (deemed implementation of RP as per RBI circular)
-
-
2
Restructuring / change in ownership outside IBC
1
2,239.94
3
Resolution pursued under IBC
-
-
4
Assignment of debt / recovery proceedings
-
-
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
392
YES BANK LIMITED
17.5.23 Sector-wise Advances and Gross NPAs
The details of Sector-wise Outstanding total advances and Gross NPAs as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are given below:
(` in million)
Sector
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Outstanding 
total advances
Gross 
NPAs
% of Gross 
NPAs to Total 
Advances in 
that sector
Outstanding 
total advances
 Gross 
NPAs
 % of Gross 
NPAs to Total 
Advances in 
that sector
I) 	
Priority Sector
a) 	
Agriculture and Allied activities
239,221.57
1,059.50
0.44%
228,396.65
1,538.67
0.67%
b) 	
Advances to industries sector eligible as 
priority sector lending
314,379.39
3,581.86
1.14%
295,481.03
3,569.72
1.21%
	
Basic Metal and Metal Products
40,023.60
214.37
0.54%
37,322.65
120.12
0.32%
	
Textile
32,570.98
731.87
2.25%
35,367.54
791.05
2.24%
	
Gems and Jewellery
31,956.07
139.06
0.44%
30,455.56
263.14
0.86%
c) 	
Services
400,010.17
6,306.10
1.58%
395,553.02
6,244.18
1.58%
d) 	
Personal Loans
-
-
-
 -
 -
-
e) 	
Others
62,616.37
4,477.55
7.15%
51,210.57
1,616.34
3.16%
Sub-Total (I)
1,016,227.50
15,425.01
1.52%
970,641.27
12,968.91
1.34%
II) 	
Non Priority Sector
a) 	
Agriculture and Allied activities
17,594.25
2.73
0.02%
13,011.69
3.87
0.03%
b) 	
Industry
522,725.80
6,430.03
1.23%
452,814.62
10,363.84
2.29%
	
Basic Metal and Metal Products
94,982.61
72.29
0.08%
67,488.85
16.86
0.02%
	
Infrastructure
89,449.21
5,482.63
6.13%
76,722.06
8,793.13
11.46%
	
Gems and Jewellery
63,514.15
10.97
0.02%
50,744.64
8.06
0.02%
	
Chemicals and Chemical Products (Dyes, 
Paints, etc.)
57,554.26
12.69
0.02%
43,913.82
3.09
0.01%
 c) 	
Services
286,461.50
4,529.78
1.58%
252,639.47
6,033.03
2.39%
 	
NBFC’s
98,752.36
231.52
0.23%
69,187.84
13.76
0.02%
	
Commercial Real Estate
39,122.41
4,030.89
10.30%
46,465.63
5,120.06
11.02%
 	
Construction
31,725.12
252.27
0.80%
19,506.31
501.04
2.56%
d) 	
Personal Loans
131,290.77
3,182.50
2.42%
160,147.60
3,006.23
1.88%
e) 	
Others$
518,939.62
9,786.06
1.89%
455,268.35
7,449.72
1.64%
Sub-Total (II)
1,477,011.93
23,931.11
1.62%
1,333,881.73
26,856.68
2.01%
Total (I+II)
2,493,239.43
39,356.12
1.58%
2,304,523.00
39,825.59
1.73%
17.5.24 Unsecured advances
The details of net Unsecured Advances as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are given below:
(` in million) 
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Total unsecured advances of the Bank
557,472.71
503,643.93
Out of the above, amount of advances for which intangible securities such as charge over 
the rights, licenses, authority, etc. have been taken
719.86
2,763.70
Estimated value of such intangible securities
3,517.81
18,622.80
17.5.25 Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stressed assets
Details of resolution plans implemented under the Resolution Framework for Covid-19 related stress as per RBI circular dated 
August 6, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) and May 5, 2021 (Resolution Framework 2.0):
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
393
393
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For six months ended March 31, 2025
 (` in million)
(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)
(E)
Type of borrower
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan - 
Position as at the end 
of the previous half-
year (A)
Of (A), 
aggregate 
debt that 
slipped into 
NPA during 
half-year
Of (A), 
amount 
written off 
during the 
half-year
Of (A), 
amount 
paid by the 
borrowers 
during the 
half-year
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan - 
Position as at the end 
of this half-year
Personal Loans
73.90
6.00
2.40
14.80
50.70
Corporate Person’s*
603.21
0.00
0.00
137.55
465.65
Of which, MSME’s
494.83
0.00
0.00
133.89
360.94
Others
2,113.23
39.68
3.92
450.59
1,633.11
Total
2,790.33
45.68
6.32
602.95
2,149.46
* Includes Non-Fund Based Exposure amounting to nil as at the end of this half-year.
For six months ended March 31, 2024
 (` in million)
(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)
(E)
Type of borrower
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan - 
Position as at the end 
of the previous half-
year (A)
Of (A), 
aggregate 
debt that 
slipped into 
NPA during 
half-year
Of (A), 
amount 
written off 
during the 
half-year
Of (A), 
amount 
paid by the 
borrowers 
during the 
half-year
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan - 
Position as at the end 
of this half-year
Personal Loans
495.50
24.90
21.80
264.50
184.30
Corporate Person’s*
29,262.44
453.87
1,477.06
10,451.91
15,861.32
Of which, MSME’s
1,338.73
92.59
1.20
527.27
772.87
Others
3,236.49
133.11
19.69
626.48
2,472.62
Total
32,994.43
611.88
1,518.54
11,342.89
18,518.16
* Includes Non-Fund Based Exposure amounting to ` 159.50 million as at the end of this half-year.
17.5.26 Restructuring of Advances - Micro Small and Medium Enterprises
As at year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has restructured advances amounting to ` 1,496.66 million (Previous year: ` 2,263.65 
million) to Micro Small and Medium Enterprises.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
No. of accounts restructured
404
661
Amount (` in million)
1,496.66
2,263.65
17.5.27 Non-performing financial assets purchased / sold from/to other banks/ Financial Institutions / NBFCs (excluding ARCs)
The Bank has not purchased/sold from/to other banks/Financial Institutions/NBFCs (excluding ARCs) during the year ended 
March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
394
YES BANK LIMITED
17.5.28 Transfer of Loan Exposure
Details of loans transferred / acquired during the year ended March 31, 2025 under the RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan 
Exposures dated September 24, 2021 are given below:
(i)	
Details of stressed loans transferred are given below:
Particulars
To Asset 
Reconstruction 
Companies (ARCs)
To permitted 
transferees
No of accounts
67,765
Nil
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred1 (` in million)
5,062.71
Nil
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred (in years)
-
Nil
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer) (` in million)
-
Nil
Aggregate consideration (` in million)
278.20
Nil
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts transferred in earlier years  
(` in million)
-
Nil
	
1 Consist of written off loans of Retail Assets and Credit Card.
(ii)	
On an aggregate basis, no excess provisions has been reversed to the profit and loss account during the year ended March 31, 
2025 on account of written off assets transferred to ARCs for full consideration value received in cash.
(ii)	
The Bank has not acquired any non-performing assets during the year ended March 31, 2025.
(iv)	 The Bank has not transferred/acquired any Special Mention Accounts during the year ended March 31, 2025.
(v)	
Net book value of the security receipts (‘SRs’) held by the Bank is Nil as on March 31, 2025 that is distributed across the 
various categories of Recovery Ratings assigned to such SRs by the credit rating agencies.
(vi)	 Details of loans not in default acquired, loans transferred/acquired through assignment/novation during the year ended 
March 31, 2025 are given below:
Particulars
Loans Acquired1
Loans Sold1
Aggregate amount (` in million)
36,504.26
17,608.45
Weighted average residual maturity (in years)
10.46
6.79
Weighted average holding period by originator (in years)
0.71
0.66
Retention of beneficial economic interest by the originator
21.09%
24.35%
Tangible security coverage
103.87%
78.63%
	
1 Rating wise distribution of rated loans transferred/acquired through assignment/novation:
 (` in million)
Rating
Rating Agency
Loans Acquired
Loans sold
CRISIL
AA+
2,474.90
-
IND
AA+
-
1,915.80
CARE
AA-
-
1,480.00
ICRA
AA-
965.00
-
ICRA
A
800.00
-
CARE
A
-
2,100.00
IND
A-
937.50
-
CARE
A-
-
2,500.00
CRISIL
BBB+
-
3,980.00
Unrated
Unrated
31,326.86
5,632.65
Grand Total
36,504.26
17,608.45
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
395
395
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
During the year ended March 31, 2024:
Details of loans transferred / acquired during the year ended March 31, 2024 under the RBI Master Direction on 2 Exposures 
dated September 24, 2021 (as updated from time to time):
(i)	
Details of stressed loans transferred are given below:
Particulars
To Asset 
Reconstruction 
Companies (ARCs)
To permitted 
transferees
No of accounts
2
Nil
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred (` in million)
6,903.20
Nil
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred (in years)
3.6
Nil
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer) (` in million)
1,420.80
Nil
Aggregate consideration (` in million)
3,364.00
Nil
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts transferred in earlier years  
(` in million)
-
Nil
(ii)	
On an aggregate basis, excess provisions to the extent of ` 1,943.20 million reversed to the profit and loss account during 
the year ended March 31, 2024 on account of stressed loans transferred to an ARC for a full consideration value received in 
cash that is higher than the net book values of the loans at the time of transfer.
(iii)	 The Bank has not acquired any non-performing assets during the year ended March 31, 2024.
(iv)	 The Bank has not transferred/acquired any Special Mention Accounts during the year ended March 31, 2024.
(v)	
Disclosure of distribution of the security receipts (‘SRs’) held by the Bank as on March 31, 2024 across the various categories 
of Recovery Ratings assigned to such SRs by the credit rating agencies:
Rating
Rating Agency
Recovery Rating
Value of outstanding SRs (net 
of provisions) (` in million)
RR1+
ICRA
More than 150%
552.43
RR1+
Infomerics
More than 150%
 3,318.35
RR1
ICRA
More than 100% and upto 150%
 1,451.43
RR1
India Ratings
More than 100% and upto 150%
 2,089.95
RR1
Infomerics
More than 100% and upto 150%
 3,101.23
RR2
Infomerics
More than 75% and upto 100%
 2,330.25
Grand Total
 12,843.64
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
396
YES BANK LIMITED
(vi)	 Details of loans not in default acquired, loans transferred/acquired through assignment/novation during the year ended 
March 31, 2024 are given below:
Particulars
Loans Acquired1
Loans Sold2
Aggregate amount (` in million)
 35,881.41
4,971.08
Weighted average residual maturity (in years)
 9.61
17.96
Weighted average holding period by originator (in years)
 1.06
1.17
Retention of beneficial economic interest by the originator
20.6%
83.6%
Tangible security coverage
87.0%
117.0%
1.	
Rating wise distribution of rated loans acquired through assignment/novation:
Rating
Rating Agency
Loans Acquired
(` in million)
AA-
India Ratings
 1,675.60
A-
CARE
 2,000.00
BBB
CARE
 1,500.00
BBB-
CARE
 4,152.30
Grand Total
9,327.90
2.	
Loans sold are unrated.
17.5.29 Provisions for Standard Assets
Provision on standard advances as at March 31, 2025 was ` 14,943.03 million. Provision on standard advances as at March 31, 
2024 was ` 16,733.34 million.
17.5.30 Business ratios 	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
i)	
Interest income as a percentage to working funds1
7.7%
7.0%
ii) 	
Non-interest income as a percentage to working funds1
1.5%
1.3%
iii) 	
Cost of Deposits
6.1%
6.1%
iv) 	
Net Interest Margin
2.4%
2.4%
v) 	
Operating profit as a percentage to working funds1
1.1%
0.9%
vi) 	
Return on assets1
0.6%
0.3%
vii) 	
Business (deposits + net advances) per employee2 (` in million)
183.99
174.19
viii) 	 Profit per employee2 (` in million)
0.85
0.45
1 Working funds represents the average of total assets as reported in Return Form X to RBI under Section 27 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
2 For the purpose of computation of business per employee and profit per employee (deposits plus advances), interbank deposits have been 
excluded and average employees have been considered.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
397
397
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.5.31 Asset Liability Management
The following table sets forth the maturity pattern of assets and liabilities of the Bank as on March 31, 2025.
(` in million)
Maturity Buckets
Loans & 
Advances
Investment 
Securities
Deposits
Borrowings
FCY Assets
FCY Liabilities
1 Day
11,913.62
262,933.52
17,746.48
11,040.00
36,395.48
566.66
2-7 days
48,831.75
10,208.87
122,830.18
17,909.52
27,619.15
8,861.76
8-14 Days
29,276.23
24,231.41
77,669.14
1,466.85
8,793.70
2,837.88
15-30 Days
78,361.04
53,904.77
153,414.59
2,353.68
21,666.28
8,344.44
1-2 Months
72,266.22
26,739.01
139,091.92
18,768.34
25,402.64
16,907.92
2-3 Months
66,190.74
23,443.03
112,366.50
43,051.70
18,035.38
18,626.61
3-6 Months
115,980.55
45,670.84
245,287.15
94,010.68
35,021.24
40,180.25
6-12 Months
177,231.35
82,662.24
445,400.24
185,177.72
5,715.73
66,882.65
1-3 Years
1,347,196.66
116,649.36
490,009.66
292,204.94
19,532.33
77,596.13
3-5 Years
180,967.11
175,319.04
1,026,348.07
39,170.00
12,522.52
46,754.26
Over 5 Years
333,669.42
29,282.74
15,087.40
10,876.25
18,827.10
2,833.19
TOTAL
2,461,884.69
851,044.83
2,845,251.33
716,029.68
229,531.55
290,391.75
Classification of assets and liabilities under the different maturity buckets is based on the same estimates and assumptions as 
used by the Bank for compiling the return submitted to the RBI.
Maturity profile of foreign currency assets and liabilities is excluding Off Balance Sheet item.
The following table sets forth the maturity pattern of assets and liabilities of the Bank as on March 31, 2024.
 (` in million)
Maturity Buckets
Loans & 
Advances
Investment 
Securities
Deposits
Borrowings
FCY Assets
FCY Liabilities
1 Day
8,094.11
332,031.80
12,247.31
0.00
10,909.72
483.68
2-7 days
20,215.29
45,827.08
161,247.35
6,159.53
4,134.77
4,379.99
8-14 Days
33,235.42
27,801.11
67,090.86
703.07
11,320.36
1,299.42
15-30 Days
68,920.29
49,739.05
143,104.66
2,713.48
10,722.47
3,845.02
1-2 Months
74,469.45
20,144.33
120,982.31
10,301.83
12,356.42
8,821.67
2-3 Months
65,415.01
29,554.49
133,836.53
44,631.99
16,464.01
10,120.82
3-6 Months
122,778.11
41,451.52
237,743.02
86,146.11
9,676.09
70,196.49
6-12 Months
194,958.66
94,997.00
497,068.10
169,677.89
16,035.73
96,912.72
1-3 Years
1,143,005.87
78,039.44
428,432.22
327,000.30
21,426.36
41,635.45
3-5 Years
203,954.28
168,599.24
845,373.10
148,251.88
15,671.24
39,835.14
Over 5 Years
342,948.23
14,166.26
16,596.26
3,822.72
15,028.41
3,999.07
TOTAL
2,277,994.72
902,351.32
2,663,721.72
799,408.80
143,745.58
281,529.47
Classification of assets and liabilities under the different maturity buckets is based on the same estimates and assumptions as 
used by the Bank for compiling the return submitted to the RBI.
Maturity profile of foreign currency assets and liabilities is excluding Off Balance Sheet item.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
398
YES BANK LIMITED
Exposures
The Bank has lending to sectors, which are sensitive to asset price fluctuations. Such sectors include capital market and real estate.
17.5.32 Exposure to Real Estate Sector
The exposure, representing the higher of funded and non-funded limits sanctioned or outstanding to real estate sector, is given 
in the table below:
(` in million)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
i)
Direct exposure
a)	
Residential Mortgages
248,329.85
228,734.45
	
Of total Residential Mortgages- Individual housing loans eligible for inclusion in 
priority sector advances
50,871.05
47,339.04
	
Fund based
248,328.65
228,680.75
	
Non fund based
1.20
53.70
b)	
Commercial Real Estate*
94,721.57
90,548.42
	
Of total Commercial Real Estate - outstanding as advances
83,000.19
75,050.38
c)	
Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and other securitised exposures
 	
i) 	
Residential
 -
-
 	
ii) 	
Commercial Real Estate
-
-
ii)
Indirect exposure
Fund based and non fund based exposures on National Housing Board and Housing 
Finance Companies
23,925.48
28,207.40
Total Exposure to Real Estate Sector
 366,976.90
 347,490.26
*Commercial real estate exposure classification is based on RBI circular DBOD.BP.BC.No. 42/08.12.015/2009-10 dated September 9, 2009.
17.5.33 Exposure to Capital Market
The exposure representing the higher of funded and non-funded limits sanctioned or outstanding to capital market sector is given 
in the table below:
(` in million)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
As at
 March 31, 2025
As at
 March 31, 2024
i)
Direct investment in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible debentures and 
units of equity-oriented mutual funds the corpus of which is not exclusively invested in 
corporate debt;
2,359.60
1,490.91
ii)
Advances against shares / bonds / debentures or other securities or on clean basis 
to individuals for investment in shares (including IPOs / ESOPs), convertible bonds, 
convertible debentures, and units of equity-oriented mutual funds;
4,861.50
7,674.24
iii)
Advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible bonds or convertible 
debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds are taken as primary security;
-
-
iv)
Advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by the collateral security of 
shares or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity oriented mutual 
funds i.e. where the primary security other than shares / convertible bonds / convertible 
debentures / units of equity oriented mutual funds ‘does not fully cover the advances;
3,099.02
791.18
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
399
399
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in million)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
As at
 March 31, 2025
As at
 March 31, 2024
v)
Secured and unsecured advances to stockbrokers and guarantees issued on behalf of 
stockbrokers and market makers;*
13,320.49
24,788.09
vi)
Loans sanctioned to corporate against the security of shares / bonds / debentures or 
other securities or on clean basis for meeting promoter’s contribution to the equity of 
new companies in anticipation of raising resources;
5,090.04
7,085.13
vii)
Bridge loans to companies against expected equity flows / issues;
-
-
viii)
Underwriting commitments taken up by the banks in respect of primary issue of shares 
or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds;
-
-
ix)
Financing to stockbrokers for margin trading
-
-
x)
All exposures to Venture Capital Funds (both registered and unregistered)
265.76
158.52
Total Exposure to Capital Market
28,996.41
41,988.06
Capital market exposure is reported in line with Para 2.3 of RBI’s Master Circular on Exposure Norms dated July 1, 2015 (DBR.No.Dir.
BC.12/13.03.00/2015-16).
* Exposure of Stock Broker comprises Fund-based & Non-fund based portfolio and the Consolidated Exposure is inclusive of ‘YES Securities 
(India) Limited’
 * Out of the above ` 5,553.38 million (Previous years: ` 6,072.72 million) is exposure to YES Securities (India) Limited, which is a subsidiary of the Bank.
17.5.34  Risk Category wise Country Exposure
As per the extant RBI guidelines, the country exposure (direct and indirect) of the Bank is categorised into various risk categories 
listed in the following table. As at March 31, 2025, the net funded country exposure (direct) of the Bank as a percentage of total 
funded assets for United States of America is 1.12% (for previous year March 31, 2024 United States of America was 0.44%). 
As the net funded exposure to United States of America exceeded 1.0% of total funded assets, the Bank held a provision of 
` 127.88 million on country exposure (direct and indirect) at March 31, 2025 based on RBI guidelines.
(` in million)
Risk Category
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Exposure (net)
Provision held
Exposure (net)
Provision held
Insignificant
136,747.83
127.88
90,332.72
-
Low
31,499.31
-
30,868.21
-
Moderately Low
1,353.94
-
913.06
-
Moderate
570.28
-
-
-
Moderately High
4,423.10
-
5,477.49
-
High
-
-
-
-
Very High
-
-
-
-
TOTAL
174,594.45
127.88
127,591.48
-
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
400
YES BANK LIMITED
17.5.35 Details of factoring exposure
The factoring exposure of the Bank outstanding as on March 31, 2025 is ` 13,423.32 million (Previous year: ` 6,047.19 million).
Miscellaneous
17.5.36 Disclosure on borrowing and lending activities
The Bank, as part of its normal banking business, grants loans and advances, makes investments, provides guarantees to and 
accept deposits and borrowings from its customers, other entities and persons. These transactions are part of the Bank’s normal 
banking business and are undertaken in accordance with the guidelines prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India.
Other than the transactions described above, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or 
share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank to or in any other persons or entities, including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”) with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified by or on behalf of the Bank (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or provide any guarantee, security or like 
on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
The Bank has also not received any fund from any persons or entities, including foreign entities (‘Funding Party’) with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Bank shall whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
17.5.37 Concentration of Deposits
The below table represents the deposits of top 20 depositors (excluding certificate of deposits, which are tradable instruments) 
as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
(` in million)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Total deposits of the twenty largest depositors
322,785.40
305,184.87
Percentage of deposits of twenty largest depositors to total deposits of the bank
11.34%
11.46%
17.5.38 Concentration of Advances
 (` in million) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Total advances to the twenty largest borrowers
434,438.60
373,956.05
Percentage of advances to twenty largest borrowers to total advances of the bank
8.32%
8.00%
For this purpose, advance is computed as per definition of Credit Exposure in RBI Master Circular on Exposure Norms DBR.No.Dir.
BC.12/13.03.00/2015-16 dated July 1, 2015.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
401
401
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.5.39 Concentration of Exposures
(` in million)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Total exposure to the twenty largest borrowers/customers
448,524.30
382,325.90
Percentage of exposures to the twenty largest borrowers/ customers to the total exposure of 
the bank on borrowers/ customers
8.37%
7.94%
Exposure is computed as per definition of Credit and Investment Exposure in RBI Master Circular on Exposure Norms DBR.No.Dir.
BC.12/13.03.00/2015-16 dated July 1, 2015.
17.5.40 Concentration of NPAs
(` in million) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Total Exposure to the top twenty NPA accounts*
12,755.82
31,018.45
Percentage of exposures to the twenty largest NPA exposure to total Gross NPAs*
30.93%
55.79%
*Represents credit and investment exposure as per RBI Master Circular on Exposure Norms DBR.No.Dir.BC.12/13.03.00/2015-16 
dated July 1, 2015.
17.5.41 Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’)
The Bank reports basic and diluted earnings per equity share in accordance with Accounting Standard 20, “Earnings Per Share.” 
The dilutive impact is mainly due to stock options granted to employees and share warrants convertible into equity shares. 
The computation of earnings per share is given below:
(` in million) 
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Net profit / (loss) after tax (`)
24,058.59
 12,510.80
Basic earnings per share (`)
0.77
 0.44
Diluted earnings per share (`)
0.77
 0.43
Nominal value per share (`)
 2
2
Reconciliation between weighted shares used in computation of basic and diluted
earnings per share
Basic weighted average no. of equity shares outstanding
31,154,662,422
28,759,039,213
Diluted Weighted average no. of equity shares outstanding
31,304,013,690
29,425,328,611
*The difference between weighted average number of equity shares outstanding between basic and diluted in the above mentioned disclosure is 
on account of outstanding ESOPs and share warrants convertible into equity shares.
Basic earnings per equity share has been computed by dividing net profit / (loss) for the year attributable to the equity shareholders 
by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding for the year. Diluted earnings per equity share has been computed 
by dividing the net profit / (loss) for the year attributable to the equity shareholders by the weighted average number of equity 
shares and dilutive potential equity shares outstanding during the year, except where the results are anti-dilutive. The dilutive 
impact is on account of stock options granted to employees by the Bank and allotment of share warrants convertible into equity 
shares. There is no impact of dilution on the profits in the current year and previous year.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
402
YES BANK LIMITED
17.5.42 Income Taxes
Provisions made for Income Tax during the year ended March 31, 2025 and year ended March 31, 2024
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Current Tax
-
-
Deferred tax
8,097.68
3,780.63
(Write back)/Additional provision of
Income Tax pertaining to previous years
(472.82)
(1,291.64)
TOTAL
7,624.86
2,488.99
17.5.43 Disclosure of penalties imposed by RBI
During the year ended March 31, 2025, following are the list of penalties imposed on the Bank by RBI.
SI no.
Date
Topic
Detail
(` in million)
1.
1 instance
Non-Compliance 
to 
Paragraph 
5.4.1(vi) of Master Circular No.DBR 
No.Leg.B.C.21/09.07.006/2015-16 
dated July 01, 2015 on “Customer 
Service in Banks” and Paragraphs 
2 and 4 read with I(2) of Annex 
to 
the 
circular 
Ref 
No.DBS.
CO.PPD./472/11.01.005/2019-20 
dated July 17, 2019 on “Un-
authorised Operation of Internal/
Office Accounts.
RBI has levied a monetary penalty of ` 91,00,000/- (`91.00 
lakh) on the Bank on May 27, 2024 for non-compliance 
with certain directions issued by RBI on ‘Customer Service 
in Banks’, and ‘Un-authorised Operation of internal/
Office Accounts’. The Bank had levied charges (i) for non-
maintenance of minimum balance in certain savings 
accounts having insufficient/zero balance and (ii) opened 
and operated certain internal accounts in the name of its 
customers for unauthorised purposes like parking funds and 
routing customer transactions.
9.1
2.
9 instances
Non-compliance 
with 
the 
RBI 
guidelines on issuance of soiled 
notes to General Public and non-
provision of the facility for the 
exchange of soiled / mutilated bank 
notes by the branches
RBI had levied a penalty of ` 85,000/- on account of non-
compliance with the RBI guidelines on issuance of soiled 
notes to General Public and non-provision of the facility 
for the exchange of soiled / mutilated bank notes by the 
Branches.
#
3.
5 instances
Irregularities observed in the soiled 
note remittance from currency 
chest
RBI had levied a total penalty of ` 1,400/- on account of the 
irregularities observed in the soiled note remittance received 
from YES Bank Currency Chest.
*
4.
1 instance
ATM replenishment
As per the RBI circular dated August 10, 2021 on ‘Monitoring 
of Availability of Cash in ATMs’, Banks are advised to 
strengthen their systems/ mechanisms to monitor 
availability of cash in ATMs and ensure timely replenishment 
to avoid cash-outs. Further, the circular stated that Cash-out 
at any ATM of more than 10 hours in a month will attract a 
flat penalty of ` 10,000/- per ATM. During the Financial Year 
2024-25, RBI had levied a total penalty of ` 10,000/- for 
non- replenishment of Bank’s ATMs located at Chandigarh, 
for more than 10 hours.
0.01
# Represent ` 85,000/-
* Represent ` 1,400/-
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
403
403
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
During the financial year ended March 31, 2024, following are the list of penalties imposed on the Bank by RBI.
SI no.
Date
Topic
Detail
(` in million)
1.
8 instances
ATM replenishment
As per the RBI circular dated August 10, 2021 on 
‘Monitoring of Availability of Cash in ATMs’, Banks are 
advised to strengthen their systems/ mechanisms to 
monitor availability of cash in ATMs and ensure timely 
replenishment to avoid cash-outs. Further, the circular 
stated that Cash-out at any ATM of more than 10 hours in 
a month will attract a flat penalty of ` 10,000/- per ATM. 
During the Financial Year 2023-24, RBI had levied a total 
penalty of ` 80,000/- for non- replenishment of Bank’s 
ATMs located at Kanpur, Delhi, Belapur, Jaipur, Guwahati, 
Chennai, and Chandigarh, for more than 10 hours.
0.08
2.
7 instances
Non-compliance 
with 
the 
RBI 
guidelines on issuance of soiled notes 
to General Public and non-provision of 
the facility for the exchange of soiled / 
mutilated bank notes by the branches
RBI had levied a penalty of ` 75,000/- on account of non-
compliance with the RBI guidelines on issuance of soiled 
notes to General Public and non-provision of the facility 
for the exchange of soiled / mutilated bank notes by the 
Branches.
#
3.
7 instances
Irregularities observed in the soiled 
note remittance from currency chest
RBI had levied a total penalty of ` 27,550/- on account of 
the irregularities observed in the soiled note remittance 
received from YES Bank Currency Chest.
*
4.
1 instance
Non-compliance 
with 
the 
RBI 
guidelines on para 2 of part–II of the 
Master Direction on Direct Investment 
by Residents in JV/WOS abroad
RBI, had levied a penalty of ` 10,000 /- being non 
compliant on para 2 of part–II of the Master Direction on 
Direct Investment by Residents in JV/WOS abroad dated 
Jan 01, 2016 under Section 11(3) of FEMA, 1999.
0.01
# Represent ` 75,000 /-
* Represent ` 27,550 /-
17.5.44 Fees/ Remuneration received from bancassurance
Bank has earned ` 7,621.94 million from bancassurance business during the year ended March 31, 2025 (previous year: ` 6,917.51 
million). The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the break-up of income derived from bancassurance business:
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Income from selling life insurance policies
5,761.34
 4,658.95
Income from selling non-life insurance policies
1,860.60
 2,258.56
TOTAL
7,621.94
6,917.51
17.5.45 Overseas Assets, NPAs and Revenue
The below table shows total assets, NPAs and revenue for the overseas branch (IBU) of the Bank.
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Total assets
152,090.42
149,686.45
Total NPAs
-
2,972.55
Total revenue
6,547.39
6,224.01
17.5.46 Repatriation of profits/loss
To bring in harmony between the foreign exchange positions as recorded in the books of accounts and the Net Overnight Open 
Position (NOOP) computation, the Bank (Head Office), in terms of the RBI circular No. RBI/DOR/2021-22/83 DOR.ACC.REC.
No.45/21.04.018/2021-22 dated August 30, 2021 as amended from time to time, repatriated accumulated losses to the tune of 
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
404
YES BANK LIMITED
` 11,712.36 million equivalent to USD 139 million to the IBU Branch. This is an inter-branch adjustments and at an overall Bank 
level there is no impact on the Bank’s financial position.
17.5.47 Sponsored SPVs
The Bank has not sponsored any SPV during the FY 2024-25 and FY 2023-24 and hence there is no consolidation due to SPVs 
in Bank’s books.
17.5.48 Credit default swaps
The Bank has not transacted in credit default swaps during the year ended March 31, 2025 (Previous year: ‘Nil’).
17.5.49 Credit / Debit card reward points
Provision for credit card and debit card reward points for the year ended March 31, 2025 and year ended March 31, 2024
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Opening provision
653.17
643.67
Provision made during the year
519.72
444.68
Utilised/Write-back of provision
(296.07)
 (435.18)
Closing provision
876.82
653.17
The valuation of credit card and debit card reward points is based on actuarial valuation obtained from an independent actuary.
17.5.50 Corporate Social Responsibility
The details of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities carried out in line with the CSR Policy of the Bank are given below:
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
(a)	
Gross amount required to be spent by the Bank
251.90
Nil
(b)	
Amount approved by the Board to be spent
252.00
100.00
(c)	
Amount spent during the year on:
	
(i)	
Construction / acquisition of any asset
Nil
Nil
	
(ii)	
On purposes other than (i) above
230.00
100.00
(d)	
Amount recognised as expense in the Profit and Loss account on CSR related activities
252.00
Nil
(e)	
 Where a provision is made with respect to a liability incurred by entering into a 
contractual obligation, the movements in the provision
Nil
Nil
(f)	
Details of related party transactions in relation to CSR expenditure as per AS 18:
	
Of the amount spent as per (c) above, contribution made to YES Foundation for CSR 
activities
219.00
100.00
(g)	
(i) 	
Movement in amount remained unspent:
	
	
Opening balance
Nil
Nil
	
	
Add: Amount required to be spent during the year
Nil
Nil
	
	
Less: Amount spent during the year
Nil
Nil
	
	
Less: Amount deposited in Specified Fund of Sch. VII within 6 months
Nil
Nil
	
	
Closing balance
Nil
Nil
	
(ii) 	
Movement in amount spent in excess of the requirements:
	
	
Amount available for set off from preceding year
100.00
Nil
	
	
Less: Amount required to be spent during the year
252.00
Nil
	
	
Add: Amount spent during the year
230.00
100.00
	
	
Amount available for set off carried forward to the next year
78.00
100.00
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
405
405
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.5.51 Staff retirement benefits
The following table sets out the funded status of the Gratuity Plan and the amounts recognised in the Bank’s financial statements 
as of March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 which is as per AS-15 Employee Benefits (Revised):
a)	
Changes in present value of Obligations:
(` in million)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Present Value of Obligation at the beginning of the year
1,744.69
1,565.88
Interest Cost
123.79
112.98
Current Service Cost
332.77
260.67
Past Service Cost
-
-
Liability transferred from other company
2.25
-
Benefits Paid
(305.63)
(244.22)
Actuarial (gain)/loss on Obligation
36.54
49.38
Present Value of Obligation at the end of the year
1,934.41
1,744.69
b)	
Changes in the fair value of plan assets:
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
1,318.00
1,439.20
Adjustment to Opening Balance
0.00
0.00
Expected return on plan assets
93.51
103.84
Contributions
200.00
-
Benefits paid
(305.63)
(244.22)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on plan assets
10.28
19.17
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the period
1,316.15
1,318.00
	
The Bank has entire contribution of Gratuity Fund as Investments with Insurance Companies which are invested primarily in 
debt instruments as approved by IRDAI.
	
Estimated rate of return on plan assets is based on the expected average long-term rate of return on investments of the 
Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
	
Net gratuity cost for the year ended March 31, 2025 and year March 31, 2024 comprises the following components:
 (` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Current Service Cost
332.77
260.67
Interest Cost
123.79
112.98
Expected Return on plan assets
(93.51)
(103.84)
Net Actuarial gain recognised in the year
26.26
30.21
Past Service Cost
-
-
Expenses recognised
389.31
300.02
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
406
YES BANK LIMITED
	
Experience History:
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
(Gain)/Loss on obligation due to change in 
assumption
(37.81)
6.50
(350.47)
(26.74)
-
Experience (Gain)/Loss on obligation
74.35
42.88
59.46
(126.45)
(137.06)
Actuarial Gain/(Loss) on plan assets
10.28
19.17
(26.95)
34.28
30.21
	
The assumptions used in accounting for the gratuity plan are set out below: 
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Discount Rate
6.50%
7.10%
Expected Return on Plan Assets
8.00%
7.10%
Mortality
100% of IALM 2012-14
100% of IALM 2012-14
Future Salary Increases
8.00%
9.00%
Disability
Attrition
25% - 41%
26% - 41%
Retirement
60 Years
60 Years
	
Actuarial assumption on salary increase also takes into consideration the inflation, seniority, promotion and other 
relevant factors.
	
Position of plan asset / liability
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the period
1,316.15
1,318.00
Present Value of Obligation at the end of the year
1,934.41
1,744.69
Plan asset / (liability)
(618.26)
(426.69)
	
As the contribution expected to be paid to the plan during the annual period beginning after the balance sheet date is based 
on various internal/external factors, a best estimate of the contribution is not determinable.
	
The above information is as certified by the actuary.
	
National Pension Scheme (NPS)
	
The Bank has contributed ` 112.62 million for the year ended March 31, 2025 (Previous year: ` 83.41 million) to NPS for 
employees who had opted for the scheme. The Bank has no liability for future fund benefits other than its annual contribution 
for the employees who agree to contribute to the scheme.
	
Provident Fund (PF)
	
The Bank has recognised in the profit and loss account ` 1,382.92 million for the year ended March 31, 2025 (March 31, 
2024: ` 1,323.45 million) towards contribution to the provident fund.
	
Compensated absences
	
The Bank has recognised ` 137.66 million in the profit and loss account for the year ended March 31, 2025 (March 31, 2024: 
` 94.02 million) towards compensated absences.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
407
407
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.5.52 Segment Reporting
Pursuant to the guidelines issued by RBI on Accounting Standard 17 “Segment Reporting” - Enhancement of Disclosures dated 
April 18, 2007, effective from period ending March 31, 2008, the following business segments have been reported.
Business segments have been identified and reported taking into account the target customer profile, the nature of products 
and services, the differing risks and returns, the organisation structure, the internal business reporting structure, guidelines 
prescribed by the RBI and in accordance with the Accounting Standard 17. Accordingly, this disclosure has been prepared basis 
principles laid down in the regulatory guidelines which is distinct from the internal business segments reporting of the Bank.
	
Treasury: Includes investments, all financial markets activities undertaken on behalf of the customers, proprietary trading, 
maintenance of reserve requirements and resource mobilisation from other banks and financial institutions.
	
Corporate Banking / Wholesale Banking: Includes lending, deposit taking and other services offered to corporate customers.
	
Retail Banking: Includes lending, deposit taking and other services offered to retail customers. RBI in its Circular DOR.AUT.
REC.12/22.01.001/2022-23 dated April 7, 2022, for the purpose of disclosure under Accounting Standard 17, Segment 
Reporting, has identified ‘Digital Banking’ as a sub-segment under Retail Banking. The Bank has presented segment results 
pertaining to the said DBU of the Bank in sub-segment ‘Digital Banking’ of Retail banking segment.
	
Other Banking Operations: Includes para banking activities like third party product distribution which is undertaken through 
branches, custody, clearing and demat operations etc.
Segmental results for the year ended March 31, 2025 are set out below:
 (` in million)
Business Segments
Treasury
Corporate / 
Wholesale 
Banking
Retail Banking#
Other Banking 
Operations
Total
Segment Revenue
75,972.87
122,857.61
150,906.71
10,039.63
359,776.82
Add/(Less): Inter-segment
 7,740.92
Revenue net of inter- segment
367,517.73
Result
22,924.39
27,910.01
(21,404.96)
7,341.76
36,771.20
Unallocated Expenses
(5,087.75)
Operating Profit
31,683.45
Income Taxes
7,624.86
Extra-ordinary Profit/(Loss)
-
Net Profit
24,058.59
Other Information:
Segment assets
1,592,900.56
1,236,816.11
1,291,352.46
3,115.89
4,124,185.02
Unallocated assets
110,037.98
Total assets
4,234,223.00
Segment liabilities
817,836.76
1,316,196.48
1,615,269.37
917.04
3,750,219.65
Unallocated liabilities
484,003.35
Total liabilities
4,234,223.00
Other banking operations includes income from bancassurance business ` 7,621.94 million during year ended March 31, 2025.
# Segmental results of sub-segment ‘Digital Banking’ of Retail banking segment above.
(` in million)
Digital Banking
(a sub-segment of Retail banking segment)
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
Segment Revenue
 2.86
Result
 (9.23)
Segment assets
 17.63
Segment liabilities
 25.59
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
408
YES BANK LIMITED
Segmental results for the year ended March 31, 2024 are set out below:
(` in million)
Business Segments
Treasury
Corporate / 
Wholesale 
Banking
Retail Banking#
Other Banking 
Operations
Total
Segment Revenue
75,523.94
101,709.47
141,532.91
9,524.59
328,290.91
Add/(Less): Inter-segment
(1,288.54)
Revenue net of inter- segment
327,002.37
Result
13,628.35
13,779.93
(9,725.75)
5,845.43
23,527.95
Unallocated Expenses
(8,528.17)
Operating Profit
14,999.78
Income Taxes
2,488.99
Extra-ordinary Profit/(Loss)
-
Net Profit
12,510.80
Other Information:
Segment assets
1,601,570.71
1,072,732.32
1,264,924.91
3,099.96
3,942,327.90
Unallocated assets
112,602.00
Total assets
4,054,929.90
Segment liabilities
875,104.87
1,198,220.69
1,553,644.50
838.59
3,627,808.65
Unallocated liabilities
427,121.23
Total liabilities
4,054,929.90
Other banking operations includes income from bancassurance business ` 6,917.51 million during year ended March 31, 2024.
# Segmental results of sub-segment ‘Digital Banking’ of Retail banking segment above.
(` in million)
Digital Banking
(a sub-segment of Retail banking segment)
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Segment Revenue
2.44
Result
(4.74)
Segment assets
14.60
Segment liabilities
24.08
Notes for segment reporting:
1.	
The business of the Bank is largely concentrated in India. Business conducted through IFSC Banking Unit (‘IBU’) of the Bank 
situated in GIFT City, Gujarat is considered as overseas operation that is subject to different risks and returns than domestic 
operations of the Bank. Since revenue, result or assets emanating from the Bank’s IBU opearations do not meet disclosure 
threshold for the years presented above, there are no separate reportable geographical segments.
2.	
In computing the above information, certain estimates and assumptions have been made by the Management.
3.	
Income, expense, assets and liabilities have been either specifically identified with individual segment or allocated to 
segments on a systematic basis or classified as unallocated.
4.	
The unallocated assets Includes tax paid in advance/tax deducted at source and deferred tax asset.
5.	
The unallocated liabilities include Share Capital and Reserves & Surplus.
6.	
Inter-segment transactions have been generally based on transfer pricing measures as determined by the Management.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
409
409
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.5.53 Deferred Tax Asset
The deferred tax asset of ` 76,553.75 million as at March 31, 2025 and ` 85,630.92 million as at March 31, 2024, is included 
under other assets.
The components that give rise to the deferred tax asset included in the balance sheet are as follows:
(` in million)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Depreciation
 (372.94)
 218.10
Provision for gratuity and unutilised leave
 538.95
 406.32
Provision for Non-Performing Assets
 8,581.16
 7,094.56
Amortization of premium on HTM securities
 19.71
 19.71
Business Loss
 52,230.41
 60,701.36
Unabsorbed Depreciation
 1,893.64
 1,988.55
Provision for standard advances
 3,713.55
 4,164.13
Other Provisions
 9,949.27
 11,038.18
Total
 76,553.75
 85,630.92
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has reported net profit of ` 24,058.59 million. The Bank continues to carry 
the aforesaid deferred tax asset in its Balance Sheet in terms of Accounting Standard 22 “Accounting for Taxes on Income”. 
The realizability of the deferred tax assets has been assessed by the management of the Bank. The Bank has opted to exercise 
the option permitted under section 115BAA of the Income-tax Act, 1961. Accordingly, the Bank has recognised Provision for 
Income Tax basis the rate prescribed in the aforesaid section.
17.5.54 Related Party Disclosures
The Bank has transactions with its related parties comprising of subsidiary, enterprise over which the Bank has control by way of 
controlling the composition their governing body, key management personnel, the relatives of key management personnel and 
investing company.
As per Accounting Standard 18 “Related Party Disclosures”, notified under section 133 of the Companies Act 2013, read together 
with paragraph 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules 2014, the Bank’s related parties for the period ended March 31, 2025 
are disclosed below:
Subsidiary
	
YES Securities (India) Limited
Enterprise over which the Bank has control by way of controlling the composition of their corresponding governing body
	
YES Foundation
Individuals having significant influence & Key Management Personnel (‘KMP’) (Whole time Directors) and their relatives (to the 
extent transactions made):
	
Mr. Prashant Kumar, Managing Director & CEO
	
Relatives - Neelam Agarwal
	
Mr. Rajan Pental, Executive Director
	
Relatives - Anju Pental, Aryan Pental, Shreya Pental, Jyoti Walia, Sangeeta Rajpal, Praveen Rajpal, Rajeev Kumar
	
Mr. Manish Jain, Executive Director*
	
Relatives - Sarika Jain, Dr. Mahesh Chand Jain, Sushma Jain, Arushi Jain
	
* Mr. Manish Jain has been appointed as Executive Director effective December 11, 2024.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
410
YES BANK LIMITED
Investing Company
	
State Bank of India Limited (SBI). As per Accounting Standard 18 - Related Party Disclosure, SBI is an investing company for 
YES Bank Limited and YES Bank Limited is an associate of SBI.
The following represents the significant transactions between the Bank and such related parties including relatives of above 
mentioned KMP during the year ended March 31, 2025:
(` in million)
Items / Related Party 
Category
Investing 
party
Maximum 
Balance 
during 
the year
Subsidiary
Maximum 
Balance 
during the 
year
Enterprise over 
which the Bank 
has control 
by way of 
controlling the 
composition 
of their 
corresponding 
governing body
Maximum 
Balance 
during the 
year
KMP / 
Whole time 
directors / 
Individual 
having 
significant 
influence
Maximum 
Balance 
during 
the year
Relatives 
of KMP / 
Whole time 
directors / 
Individual 
having 
significant 
influence
Maximum 
Balance 
during the 
year
Borrowings
#
#
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Deposits
#
#
#
#
#
#
149.78*
307.23@
19.53*
36.01@
Placement of Deposits
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Advances (Overdraft)
#
#
#
#
-
-
-
-
-
-
Investment
-
-
#
#
-
-
-
-
-
-
Non-Funded 
Commitments
#
#
#
#
-
-
-
-
-
-
Interest received
-
-
-
-
-
-
-!
-
-!
-
Interest paid
#
-
#
-
-
-
9.22
-
1.05
-
Reimbursement of Cost 
incurred
-
-
#
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Receiving of services
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Payables
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Receivables
-
-
#
#
-
-
-
-
-
-
Sale of Fixed Assets
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Purchase of Fixed 
Assets
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Leasing/HP 
arrangements availed
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Leasing/HP 
arrangements provided
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Remuneration paid~
-
-
-
-
-
-
96.66
-
-
-
Donation / 
Contributions made^
-
-
-
-
#
-
-
-
-
-
# Secrecy provision: As per RBI Circular RBI/DOR/2021-22/83 DOR.ACC.REC No.45/21.04.2018/2021-22 dated August 30,2021 (as updated 
from time to time), where there is only one entity in any category of related party, banks need not disclose any details pertaining to that related 
party other than the relationship with that related party. Therefore, only the nature of relationship is disclosed, and summarized counterparty 
details are provided for website publication. In order to maintain secrecy of transactions pertaining to the individual parties.
^ During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has contributed ` 219.00 million to YES Foundation. YES Foundation is public charitable trust 
which undertakes social charitable activities.
*Represents balance as on March 31, 2025. These balances include CASA and Fixed deposit balances.
@Represents the maximum month end balance maintained upto year ended March 31, 2025.
! Represents value of the related party transactions during the reporting period and their balances having amounts below ` 500
Value of the related party transactions during the reporting period and their balances containing amounts below ` 50,000 are denoted as ‘0.00’.
~Remuneration includes remuneration of Managing Director & CEO & one Executive Director for the period April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 and 
remuneration of the other Executive Director for the period December 11, 2024 to March 31, 2025.
The Bank has outstanding Letter of Comforts issued in favour of Yes Securities (India) Limited amounting to ` 4,000.00 million.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
411
411
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following represents the significant transactions between the Bank and such related parties including relatives of above 
mentioned KMP during the year ended March 31, 2024:
(` in million)
Items / Related Party 
Category
Investing 
party
Maximum 
Balance 
during the 
year
Subsidiary
Maximum 
Balance 
during the 
year
Enterprise over 
which the Bank 
has control by 
way of controlling 
the composition 
of their 
corresponding 
governing body
Maximum 
Balance 
during the 
year
KMP / 
Whole time 
directors / 
Individual 
having 
significant 
influence
Maximum 
Balance 
during the 
year
Relatives of 
KMP / Whole 
time directors 
/ Individual 
having 
significant 
influence
Maximum 
Balance 
during the 
year
Borrowings
#
#
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Deposits^
#
#
#
#
#
#
3.33*
20.95@
0.54*
0.89@
Placement of Deposits
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Advances (Overdraft)
#
#
#
#
-
-
0.00*
0.00
0.07*
0.19@
Investment
-
-
#
#
-
-
-
-
-
-
Non-Funded Commitments
#
#
#
#
-
-
-
-
-
-
Interest received
#
-
#
-
-
-
-
-
0.01
-
Interest paid
#
-
#
-
#
-
0.34
-
0.03
-
Reimbursement of Cost 
incurred
#
-
#
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Receiving of services
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Payables
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Receivables
-
-
#
#
-
-
-
-
-
-
Sale of Fixed Assets
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Purchase of Fixed Assets
-
-
#**
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Leasing/HP arrangements 
availed
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Leasing/HP arrangements 
provided
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Remuneration paid
-
-
-
-
-
-
78.87
-
-
-
Donation / Contributions 
made
-
-
-
-
#
-
-
-
-
-
#Secrecy provision: As per RBI Circular RBI/DOR/2021-22/83 DOR.ACC.REC No.45/21.04.2018/2021-22 dated August 30,2021 (as updated from 
time to time), where there is only one entity in any category of related party, banks need not disclose any details pertaining to that related party 
other than the relationship with that related party. Therefore, only the nature of relationship is disclosed, and summarised counterparty details 
are provided for website publication. In order to maintain secrecy of transactions pertaining to the individual parties.
^ In accordance with the proviso to Regulation 2(1) (zc) of SEBI LODR acceptance of fixed deposits from related parties (on uniformly applicable 
terms) has been exempted and acceptance of fixed deposits will not be regarded as a related party transaction.
*Represents balance as on March 31, 2024
@Represents the maximum month end balance maintained upto year ended March 31, 2024.
** Pursuant to the approval in the Board Meeting held on January 27, 2024, the Bank entered into a business transfer agreement to transfer 
Investment Banking and Merchant Banking Business from its wholly owned subsidiary company YES Securities (India) Limited to the Bank. Please 
refer point number 17.5.77 for detailed discussion.
1.	
Values of the related party transactions during the reporting period and their balances containing amounts below ` 50,000 are 
denoted as ‘0.00’.
2.	
The Bank has outstanding letter of Comforts issued in favour of Yes Securities (India) Limited amounting to ` 2,600.00 million.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
412
YES BANK LIMITED
17.5.55 Operating Leases
Lease payments recognised in the profit and loss account for the year ended March 31, 2025 was ` 4,852.52 million (Previous 
year: ` 4,300.20 million). During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank paid minimum lease payment ` 4,634.80 million 
(Previous year: ` 4,051.11 million).
The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, the details of future rentals payment on operating leases:
(` in million)
Lease obligations
As at
 March 31, 2025
As at
 March 31, 2024
Not later than one year
 4,200.77
3,906.18
Later than one year and not later than five years
 13,482.13
13,425.45
Later than five years
 12,457.35
13,568.32
Total
30,140.25
30,899.95
The Bank does not have any provisions relating to contingent rent.
The terms of renewal/purchase options and escalation clauses are those normally prevalent in similar agreements. There are no 
undue restrictions or onerous clauses in the agreements.
17.5.56 ESOS disclosures
Effective September 10, 2020 nomenclature of YBL Employee Stock Option Scheme, 2018 (‘YBL ESOS – 2018’) changed to YBL 
Employee Stock Option Scheme, 2020 (YBL ESOS 2020) and all the plans under the said scheme continue to be valid. The YBL 
ESOS 2020 consists of YBL Joining Employee Stock Option Plan, 2018 (JESOP 2018), YBL Performance Employee Stock Option 
Plan, 2020 (PESOP 2020) and YBL MD&CEO Stock Option Plan, 2020 (MD&CEO Plan 2020). All new Options have been granted 
under the YBL ESOS 2020 (which inter-alia consist of JESOP 2018, PESOP 2020 and MD & CEO Plan 2020). YBL ESOS 2020 and 
plans formulated thereunder are in compliance with the SEBI (Share Based Employees Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021 (SEBI ESOP Regulations) as amended from time to time. Source of shares are primary in nature, since the Bank has been 
issuing new equity shares upon exercise of options.
Grants under JESOP V and PESOP II -2010 (‘the old plans’) had been discontinued w.e.f. June 12, 2018 pursuant to coming into 
effect of YBL ESOS 2018. Grants under PESOP 2018 (the old plans’) had been discontinued post April 1, 2019 pursuant to coming 
into effect of YBL ESOS 2020. However, options already granted and exercisable under all the old plans are valid in accordance 
with the terms & conditions mentioned therein.
Further, the Bank has introduced two new plans under the YBL ESOS 2020 in FY’25, YBL MD&CEO (NEW) Stock Option Plan, 
2025 (MD&CEO Plan 2025) and YBL Performance Employee Stock Option Plan, 2025 (PESOP 2025), approved via a resolution 
passed on February 22, 2025, pursuant to this, grants under MD&CEO Plan 2020 and PESOP 2020 have been discontinued. 
However, any Options already granted under the abovementioned plans would be valid in accordance with the terms & conditions 
mentioned in the plans.
Options under all the above-mentioned plans are granted for a term of 10 years (inclusive of the vesting period as mentioned 
below) and are settled with equity shares to the beneficiary upon exercise:
JESOP / PESOP
ESOP Scheme
Vesting period
JESOP
JESOP V and JESOP 2018
50% after 3 years and balance after 5 years from the Grant date
PESOP
PESOP II – 2010 and PESOP 2018
30%, 30% & 40% each year, from end of 3rd year from the Grant date
PESOP 2020
25% will vest at the end of 12, 24, 36, 42 months from the grant date
PESOP 2025
25% will vest at the end of 12, 24, 36, 48 months from the Grant date
MD & CEO Plan
MD & CEO plan 2020
25% will vest at the end of 12, 24, 36, 42 months from the grant date
MD & CEO Plan 2025
25% will vest at the end of 12, 24, 36, 48 months from the Grant date
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
413
413
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
RSU / RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS PLAN
The Bank launched the “YBL Restricted Stock Units Plan 2024” (RSU-2024) for its employees effective August 23, 2024, the plans 
formulated are in compliance with the SEBI ESOP Regulations. Source of shares are primary in nature, since the Bank has been 
issuing new equity shares upon exercise of options.
Options under the aforesaid plan are granted for a term of 7 years (from the date of grant) and are settled with equity shares 
being allotted to the beneficiary upon exercise.
Plans
Exercise period
RSU - 2024
25% will vest at the end of 12, 24, 36, 42 months from the Grant date
Summary of movement of options granted under the Bank’s stock option plans is set out below:
As of March 31, 2025:
Number of Options
Weighted average exercise price
PESOP
JESOP
RSU
PESOP
JESOP
RSU
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
281,631,810
8,250,047
-
21.94
104.83
-
Granted during the year
121,301,297
2,330,000
19,384,000
22.40
20.33
2
Exercised during the year
26,406,398
65,000
-
13.77
12.97
-
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
52,964,134
1,490,797
1,797,000
29.34
157.98
2
Outstanding at the end of the year
323,562,575
9,024,250
17,587,000
21.84
57.22
2
Exercisable
108,547,901
3,409,250
-
28.04
92.49
-
As of March 31, 2024:
Number of Options
Weighted average exercise price
PESOP
JESOP
PESOP
JESOP
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
215,329,609
7,595,897
25.08
134.90
Granted during the year
131,126,099
2,350,000
16.14
19.05
Exercised during the year
13,106,772
-
13.12
-
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
51,717,126
1,695,850
22.53
120.67
Outstanding at the end of the year
281,631,810
8,250,047
21.94
104.83
Exercisable at the end of the year
64,266,236
4,160,047
19.33
140.93
The options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the period. Weighted average share price of the Bank’s publicly traded 
equity shares as per BSE Ltd price volume data during the year ended March 31, 2025 was ` 21.71 per share (Previous year: 
` 19.30 per share).
Range of exercise price wise summary of options outstanding at March 31, 2025
Range of exercise price
Number of options outstanding
Weighted average remaining contractual  
life (in years)
PESOP
JESOP
RSU
PESOP
JESOP
RSU
Less than ` 25
317,064,511
5,450,000
17,587,000
7.84
5.23
6.49
` 25 to ` 100
-
860,000
-
-
0.61
-
` 100 to ` 250
2,097,880
2,124,250
-
0.00
0.24
-
` 250 to ` 400
4,400,184
590,000
-
0.05
0.16
-
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
414
YES BANK LIMITED
Range of exercise price wise summary of options outstanding at March 31, 2024:
Range of exercise price
Number of option  
outstanding
Weighted average remaining 
contractual life (in years)
PESOP
JESOP
PESOP
JESOP
Less than ` 25
271,427,230
3,800,000
8.09
4.14
` 25 to ` 100
-
577,900
-
0.37
` 100 to ` 250
4,385,330
3,059,647
0.02
0.67
` 250 to ` 400
5,819,250
812,500
0.09
0.32
The Bank has changed its accounting policy from the intrinsic value method to the fair value method for all share-linked 
instruments granted beginning from April 01, 2021. The Bank has adopted the fair value method based on Black- Scholes Pricing 
Model, for pricing and accounting of options. The fair value of the stock-based compensation is estimated on the grant date 
and is recognised under employee cost over the vesting period. As a result, ‘Employees cost’ for the year ended March 31, 2025 
pertaining to stock options plans is ` 675.76 million (Previous year: ` 312.56 million). The weighted average fair value of options 
granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 was ` 9.49 per option (Previous year: ` 4.07 per option).
If the Bank had adopted the Fair Value for all the options granted till March 31, 2021, the net profit after tax would have been 
lower by ` 250.98 million (Previous year: lower by ` 220.82 million), the basic earnings per share would have been 0.76 per share 
(previous year: ` 0.43) instead 0.77 per share (previous year: 0.44 per share), and diluted earnings per share would have been 
0.76 per share (previous year: 0.42 per share) instead of 0.77 per share (previous year: 0.43 per share) due to the impact of the 
aforesaid mentioned difference between the intrinsic value of the options and fair value of the options.
The following inputs and assumptions have been used for computation of the fair value based on method of Black- Scholes 
Pricing Model for the options granted during the year:
Inputs
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Risk free interest rate
6.72%-7.32%
7.04%- 7.42%
Expected life
1.5 yrs- 7.5 yrs
1.5 yrs-7.5 yrs
Expected volatility
26.67% - 39.42%
24.61%-47.07%
Expected dividend yield
0%
1.10%
Risk free interest rates over the expected life of the option are based on yield of the government securities in effect at the time 
of the grant. The expected life of an option is estimated based on the vesting period plus expected exercise period after vesting 
based on exercise behavior of the employees who receive the option. Expected exercise behavior is estimated based on the 
historical stock option exercise pattern of the Bank. Expected volatility during the estimated expected life of the option is based 
on historical volatility determined based on observed market prices of the Bank’s publicly traded equity shares.
Other Disclosures
17.5.57 Disclosure on Remuneration
(a)	
Composition of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (N&RC) of the Bank as on March 31, 2025 is as follows:
Ms. Nandita Gurjar
Independent Director (Chairperson)
Mr. Atul Malik
Independent Director
Ms. Rekha Murthy
Independent Director
Mr. Rama Subramaniam Gandhi
Mr. Sandeep Tewari
Independent Director (Part-time Chairperson of the Board)
Nominee Director (of State Bank of India)
Ms. Shweta Jalan
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (Nominee of Verventa Holdings Limited)
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
415
415
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The roles and responsibilities of the N&RC are as under-
1)	
To review the current Board composition, its governance framework and determine future requirements and making 
recommendations to the Board for approval;
2)	
To examine the qualification, knowledge, skill sets and experience of each director vis-a- vis the Bank’s requirements and 
their effectiveness to the Board on a yearly basis and accordingly recommend to the Board for the induction of new Directors;
3)	
To scrutinize nominations for Directors with reference to their qualifications and experience and making recommendations 
to the Board for appointment/filling of vacancies;
4)	
To identify persons who are qualified to become directors and who may be appointed in senior management in accordance 
with the criteria laid down, recommend to the Board their appointment and removal;
5)	
To formulate performance evaluation framework of Individual Directors (including Chairperson, Managing Director & CEO, 
Executive Directors, Independent Directors, Non-Independent Directors), Board as a whole and Board level Committees;
6)	
To review the implementation of performance evaluation framework and its compliance;
7)	
To evaluate whether to extend or continue the term of appointment of the independent director on the basis of report of 
performance evaluation of independent directors;
8)	
To validate ‘fit and proper’ status of all Directors on the Board of the Bank in terms of the Guidelines issued by the RBI or 
other regulatory authorities;
9)	
To develop and recommend to the Board Corporate Governance guidelines applicable to the Bank for incorporating 
best practices;
10)	 To implement policies and processes relating to Corporate Governance principles;
11)	 To formulate the criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a director;
12)	 To evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and on the basis of such evaluation, prepare 
a description of the role and capabilities required of an independent director. The person recommended to the Board 
for appointment as an independent director shall have the capabilities identified in such description. For the purpose of 
identifying suitable candidates, the Committee may:
	
(a)	
use the services of an external agencies, if required;
	
(b)	
consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, having due regard to diversity; and
	
(c)	
consider the time commitments of the candidates.
13)	 To devise a Policy on Board diversity;
14)	 To recommend to the Board a policy relating to, the remuneration for the directors, key managerial personnel and other 
employees including performance/achievement bonus, perquisites, retirals, sitting fee, etc.;
15)	 To review the Bank’s overall compensation structure and related polices with a view to attract, motivate and retain 
employees and review compensation levels vis-à-vis other banks and the industry in general;
16)	 To ensure the following while formulating the policy on the below matters:
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
416
YES BANK LIMITED
	
(a)	
the level and composition of remuneration is reasonable and sufficient to attract, retain and motivate directors, key 
managerial personnel and senior management of the quality required to run the Company successfully;
	
(b)	
relationship of remuneration to performance is clear and meets appropriate performance benchmarks;
	
(c)	
remuneration to Whole time directors, key managerial personnel and senior management involves a balance between 
fixed and incentive pay reflecting short and long- term performance objectives appropriate to the working of the 
Company and its goals.
17)	 To recommend to the Board all remuneration, in whatever form, payable to senior management;
18)	 To formulate detailed terms and conditions of the Employee Stock Option Schemes and to adopt, administer, enforce, 
modify and supervise the same;
19)	 To function as the Compensation Committee as prescribed under the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021 and to consider grant of stock options to employees and allot shares pursuant to exercise of Stock 
Options by employees;
20)	 To review the Human Capital Capacity Planning on annual basis;
21)	 To review the Succession Planning;
22)	 To review the HCM Policies and provide suitable guidance for additions/ modification/ deletions, if any;
23)	 To approve the appointment of Chief Human Resources Officer;
24)	 To approve the appointment of Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary;
25)	 To approve the hiring requisition for any new position as MD&CEO Direct Reports;
26)	 To perform any other functions or duties as stipulated by the Companies Act, Reserve Bank of India, Securities and Exchange 
Board of India, Stock Exchanges and any other regulatory authority or under any applicable laws as may be prescribed 
from time to time.
(b)	
Information relating to the design and structure of remuneration processes and the key features and objectives of 
remuneration policy.
	
The design and structure of remuneration process for MD & CEO/ WTDs/ MRTs is in line with the guidelines stated in the RBI 
circular dated 04 November 2019 (Ref. RBI/2019-20/89, DOR.APPT. BC. No. 23/29.67.001/2019-20), as amended from 
time to time. The remuneration for MD & CEO/ WTDs/ MRTs is adjusted for all types of risk, symmetrical with risk outcomes 
as well as sensitive to the time horizon of risk. Further, the compensation in all forms is consistent with the risk alignment 
taking into account the adherence to statutory requirements and industry practices.
The Compensation components comprise the following:
i.	
Fixed Pay and perquisites: Fixed Compensation includes components such as Basic Salary, Supplementary Allowance, 
Superannuation/ retirals and the perquisites including monetary value of reimbursements which have a monetary ceiling.
ii.	
Variable Pay: The Variable Pay for MD & CEO/ WTDs/ MRTs comprises Performance Bonus and Share Linked Instrument. 
The proportion of Variable pay to the remuneration, the composition of variable pay between Performance Bonus and Share 
Linked Instruments, and the deferral arrangements for payment are in line with the RBI Guidelines.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
417
417
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
An overview of the key features and objectives of remuneration policy –
The Bank’s Human Capital philosophy focuses on acquiring top quality Human Capital and empowering them to push their 
boundaries beyond their comfort zones, inculcating the right mind-set based on a deep sense of organizational commitment and 
ownership. This promotes a deepening of the mind share of stakeholders through superior outcomes which in turn enhances the 
market share and drives sustainable growth.
In line with the above, the “Total Rewards Policy” of the Bank has the following objectives:
	
Attracting and retaining top class talent
	
Creating and reinforcing a strong meritocracy-based performance culture
	
Reinforcing employee behaviors aligned with organizational values, which include adherence to the best Governance 
practices, prudent risk taking and delivering superior outcomes to stakeholders
(c)	
Description of the ways in which current and future risks are taken into account in the remuneration processes. It should 
include the nature and type of the key measures used to take account of these risks.
Our current remuneration process/ Policy considers the current and future risks in the following steps:
1.	
Defined Performance measures of each employee in accordance with overall target of their operating units, which is 
determined basis the stated risk appetite of the Bank and reflects the applicable Risk profile and tolerance.
2.	
Defined Key Performance Indicators (KPI) which comprise factors such as Risk Management, Superior & Consistent customer 
service, Cost Management, Strengthening Systems, Controls & Processes and Human Capital Development. Thus, the 
performance assessment is an outcome of measuring the performance holistically.
3.	
A significant portion of remuneration for Senior Executives of the Bank is the Variable Pay and it is dependent on the 
performance of Bank, Business Unit and the Individual. The Bank’s Variable Pay Program rewards employees on both 
short-term and long-term basis. There is a direct correlation between the quantum of Variable Pay payout and level of risk 
exposure and level and role of an employee in the organization.
4.	
To assess and incorporate the future risk, deferral arrangements have been incorporated for the payout of Variable Pay, 
where a certain proportion of Variable Pay (Cash and Non-Cash) is deferred over a period of time for the Senior Executives of 
the Bank. The Bank assesses through the Business Unit Head/ Risk/ Compliance/ Audit/ Finance function for any adverse 
outcomes in the case of organizational or business unit or individual level prior to the payment of the deferred portion.
	
In the event of a negative contribution or adverse outcomes, deferred compensation is subject to appropriate malus/
claw-back arrangements as decided by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
(d)	
Description of the ways in which the Bank seeks to link performance during a performance measurement period with 
levels of remuneration.
	
The Bank’s performance management process and compensation philosophies are structured to support the achievement of 
the Bank’s Key Strategic Objectives (KSO) such as Governance Compliance, Liability Generation, Cost Management, Customer 
service, Strengthening Systems, Controls & Processes and Human Capital Development. The Bank has a comprehensive 
process towards defining measurable Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for MD & CEO/ WTDs/ MRTs, which are set 
against the financial and non-financial KSOs of the Bank, and the goals framed for the performance year have a linkage 
with these KSOs. The targets for these are determined at the Bank, Business Unit and Individual level. Achievement of 
targets is assessed during the Annual Performance Review and the performance assessment outcomes have an impact on 
the remuneration.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
418
YES BANK LIMITED
(e)	
A discussion of the Bank’s policy on deferral and vesting of variable remuneration and a discussion of the Bank’s policy 
and criteria for adjusting deferred remuneration before vesting and after vesting.
	
The variable remuneration (cash and non-cash), above certain threshold, for the Senior Executives of the Bank is subject to 
a deferral arrangement as per the RBI guidelines. An assessment of individual/ Business Unit/ Bank performance as well as 
identification of cases with negative or adverse outcomes is done prior to payout of the deferred component. The payment 
of the same is subject to malus and claw-back clauses defined in the Bank’s Total Rewards Policy.
(f)	
Description of the different forms of variable remuneration (i.e., cash and types of share-linked instruments) that the 
bank utilizes and the rationale for using these different forms.
	
In line with the guidelines in the RBI circular, Variable Remuneration for MD & CEO/ WTDs/ MRTs at YES BANK comprise 
Performance Bonus Plan and Share Linked Instruments as prescribed in the guidelines.
	
For Senior management employees, the variable remuneration includes Performance Bonus and Share Linked Instruments.
	
For the rest of employees at Bank, the variable remuneration includes Performance Bonus with applicable periodicity of 
monthly, quarterly or annual basis the role. Additionally, remuneration of select employees in Middle management also 
includes Share Linked Instruments.
(g)	
There were 6 meetings of the N&RC held during the year ended March 31, 2025 (Previous year: 3 meetings). The Bank 
had paid a remuneration of ` 2.25 million to the members of the N&RC for attending the meetings of the N&RC (Previous 
year: ` 1.00 million).
The quantitative disclosures covers only Whole Time Directors/ Chief Executive Officer/ Material Risk Takers as per Appendix 3 of 
RBI circular dated 04 November 2019 (Ref. RBI/2019-20/89, DOR.APPT. BC. No. 23/29.67.001/2019-20).
For the year ended March 31, 2025
For the year ended March 31, 2024
No of employees
` in million
No of employees
` in million
h.
(i)
Number of employees having received a variable 
remuneration award during the financial year.
14
-
15
-
(ii)
Number and total amount of sign-on awards made 
during the financial year.
-
-
-
-
(iii)
Details of severance pay, in addition to accrued 
benefits, if any.
-
-
-
-
i.
(i)
Total amount of outstanding deferred 
remuneration, split into cash, shares and share-
linked instruments and other forms
14
419.54
12
276.08
(ii)
Total amount of deferred remuneration paid out in 
the financial year.
12
119.37
14
72.19
j.
Breakdown of amount of remuneration awards for the 
financial year to show fixed and variable, deferred and 
non-deferred
Total remuneration award
16**
636.59
17*
496.69
Of which Fixed Component
16
309.24
17
295.98
Of which Variable Component
14
327.35
15
200.71
Deferred
13
276.42
14
147.61
Non-deferred
14
50.93
15
53.10
k.
(i)
Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration 
and retained remuneration exposed to ex post 
explicit and / or implicit adjustments.
14
381.52
12
276.08
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
419
419
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
For the year ended March 31, 2024
No of employees
` in million
No of employees
` in million
(ii)
Total amount of reductions during the financial year 
due to ex- post explicit adjustments.
-
-
-
-
(iii)
Total amount of reductions during the financial year 
due to ex- post implicit adjustments.
1
38.02
-
-
l.
Number of Material Key Risk Takers identified
11
-
12
-
m.
(i)
Number of cases where malus has been exercised.
1
-
-
-
(ii)
Number of cases where clawback has been 
exercised.
-
-
-
-
(iii)
Number of cases where both malus and clawback 
have been exercised.
-
-
-
-
n.
The mean pay for the bank as a whole (excluding sub-
staff) and the deviation of the pay of each of its WTDs 
from the mean pay.
Mean Pay for the bank – 1.35# 
Deviation of Pay of WTDs from mean 
pay for the Bank– MD&CEO - 33:1
ED-1 - 31:1
ED-2 – 8:1^
Mean Pay for the bank – 1.30# 
Deviation of Pay of WTDs from mean 
pay for the Bank – MD&CEO - 29:1
ED - 32:1
Note:
1. Compensation for MD & CEO and EDs is as approved by the RBI and paid by the Bank to the MD & CEO and EDs. Compensation for other 
material risk takers is as approved by the Bank.
2. For the year ended March 31, 2025, 38,797,144 ESOPs were issued to 10 material risk takers, EDs and MD & CEO (previous year: 26,121,699 
ESOPs to 12 material risk takers and MD & CEO).
# This computation is based on Annual Fixed Pay and Bonus Paid.
* Payout to material risk takers who have exited during FY24 has been included.
** Payout to material risk takers who have exited during FY25 has been included.
^Remuneration for the period post appointment as Executive Director has only been considered.
17.5.58 Movement in Floating Provisions
The Bank has not created or utilised any floating provisions during the year ended March 31, 2025 (Previous year: Nil).
17.5.59 Drawdown from Reserves:
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has not drawn down any reserve. (Previous year: Nil).
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
420
YES BANK LIMITED
17.5.60 Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)
The following table sets forth, the daily average of unweighted and weighted values for all the quarters in FY2024-25.
Quantitative Disclosure:
(` in million)
Particulars
Quarter ended
March 31, 2025
Quarter ended
December 31, 2024
Quarter ended
September 30, 2024
Quarter ended
June 30, 2024
Total 
Unweighted 
Value
Total 
Weighted 
Value
Total 
Unweighted 
Value
Total 
Weighted 
Value
Total 
Unweighted 
Value
Total 
Weighted 
Value
Total 
Unweighted 
Value
Total 
Weighted 
Value
High Quality Liquid Assets
1
Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
732,448.72
738,495.64
755,143.05
831,236.27
Cash Outflows
2
Retail deposits and deposits from small 
business customers, of which:
1,175,165.40
114,021.59
1,170,999.81
113,557.74
1,141,670.15
110,653.56
1,095,786.11
106,038.98
(i)
Stable deposits
69,898.89
3,494.94
70,844.85
3,542.24
70,269.18
3,513.46
70,792.47
3,539.62
(ii)
Less stable deposits
1,105,266.51
110,526.65
1,100,154.96
110,015.50
1,071,400.97
107,140.10
1,024,993.64
102,499.36
3
Unsecured wholesale funding, of which:
1,091,910.95
566,196.84
1,090,607.91
548,023.33
1,052,946.83
521,639.07
1,098,811.27
532,351.20
(i)
Operational deposits (all counterparties)
147,112.55
36,778.14
146,604.36
36,651.09
141,845.91
35,461.48
145,792.68
36,448.17
(ii)
Non-operational deposits (all counterparties)
944,798.40
529,418.70
944,003.55
511,372.24
911,100.92
486,177.59
953,018.59
495,903.03
(iii)
Unsecured debt
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4
Secured wholesale funding
23,985.67
-
28,673.28
-
32,704.79
-
3,199.57
-
5
Additional requirements, of which
34,028.04
34,028.04
24,031.78
23,897.90
25,069.28
24,364.81
31,998.46
31,137.37
(i)
Outflows related to derivative exposures and 
other collateral requirements
34,028.04
34,028.04
23,883.02
23,883.02
24,286.54
24,286.54
31,041.69
31,041.69
(ii)
Outflows related to loss of funding on debt 
products
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii)
Credit and liquidity facilities
-
-
148.76
14.88
782.74
78.27
956.77
95.68
6
Other contractual funding obligations
111,308.59
111,308.59
106,942.69
106,942.69
99,448.72
99,448.72
68,126.22
68,126.22
7
Other contingent funding obligations
1,978,620.00
77,476.37
1,999,708.59
78,468.75
1,935,061.77
76,490.15
1,802,210.50
70,888.65
8
Total Cash Outflows
4,415,018.65
903,031.43
4,420,964.06
870,890.41
4,286,901.54
832,596.31
4,100,132.13
808,542.42
Cash Inflows
-
-
-
-
9
Secured lending (e.g. reverse repos)
11,000.48
-
18,854.92
-
4,375.67
-
41,215.60
-
10
Inflows from fully performing exposures
388,582.69
227,436.50
372,781.58
218,173.28
345,577.05
201,340.07
276,023.13
157,255.35
11
Other cash inflows
92,368.06
92,368.06
102,377.97
102,377.97
61,835.56
61,829.28
52,984.12
52,984.12
12
Total Cash Inflows
491,951.23
319,804.56
494,014.47
320,551.25
411,788.28
263,169.35
370,222.85
210,239.47
13
TOTAL HQLA
732,448.72
738,495.64
755,143.05
831,236.27
14
Total Net Cash Outflows
583,226.87
550,339.16
569,426.96
598,302.95
15
Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%)
125.59%
134.19%
132.61%
138.93%
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
421
421
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following table sets forth, the daily average of unweighted and weighted values for all the quarters in FY2023-24.
(` in million) 
Particulars
Quarter ended
March 31, 2024
Quarter ended
December 31, 2023
Quarter ended
September 30, 2023
Quarter ended
June 30, 2023
Total 
Unweighted 
Value
Total 
Weighted 
Value
Total 
Unweighted 
Value
Total 
Weighted 
Value
Total 
Unweighted 
Value
Total 
Weighted 
Value
Total 
Unweighted 
Value
Total 
Weighted 
Value
High Quality Liquid Assets
1
Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
644,541.68
598,656.78
642,406.02
589,541.70
Cash Outflows
2
Retail deposits and deposits from small 
business customers, of which:
1,059,482.65
102,360.22
1,019,198.06
98,350.60
977,253.27
94,365.75
941,763.70
90,931.73
(i)
Stable deposits
71,760.97
3,588.05
71,384.07
3,569.20
67,191.61
3,359.58
64,892.84
3,244.64
(ii)
Less stable deposits
987,721.68
98,772.17
947,813.99
94,781.40
910,061.66
91,006.17
876,870.86
87,687.09
3
Unsecured wholesale funding, of which:
1,036,594.25
499,092.76
939,783.63
444,882.77
930,307.47
446,383.06
851,800.31
393,742.66
(i)
Operational deposits (all counterparties)
115,274.37
28,818.59
110,910.07
27,727.52
91,388.28
22,847.07
90,190.87
22,547.72
(ii)
Non-operational deposits (all counterparties)
921,319.88
470,274.17
828,873.56
417,155.26
838,919.19
423,535.99
761,609.44
371,194.94
(iii)
Unsecured debt
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4
Secured wholesale funding
70,205.53
-
28,242.92
-
22,873.72
-
24,660.20
-
5
Additional requirements, of which
27,515.02
26,509.60
21,691.03
20,492.29
32,952.21
31,438.86
34,743.96
30,982.18
(i)
Outflows related to derivative exposures and 
other collateral requirements
26,397.89
26,397.89
20,359.10
20,359.10
31,270.71
31,270.71
30,564.20
30,564.20
(ii)
Outflows related to loss of funding on debt 
products
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii)
Credit and liquidity facilities
1,117.12
111.71
1,331.93
133.19
1,681.51
168.15
4,179.76
417.98
6
Other contractual funding obligations
62,295.09
62,295.09
61,211.31
61,211.31
89,115.76
89,115.76
61,486.81
61,486.81
7
Other contingent funding obligations
1,612,443.91
61,948.37
1,518,397.77
58,286.63
1,407,637.12
53,812.71
1,304,349.95
49,752.71
8
Total Cash Outflows
3,868,684.45
752,206.04
3,588,524.72
683,223.61
3,460,139.55
715,116.14
3,218,804.93
626,896.09
Cash Inflows
-
 -
-
-
-
-
9
Secured lending (e.g. reverse repos)
3,558.81
-
9,447.87
-
87,091.25
-
29,576.22
-
10
Inflows from fully performing exposures
250,527.77
145,266.31
232,148.07
134,427.43
207,093.38
121,796.35
192,337.94
113,411.46
11
Other cash inflows
55,861.98
55,861.98
48,693.04
48,693.04
66,645.61
66,645.61
54,477.72
54,477.72
12
Total Cash Inflows
309,948.58
201,128.28
290,288.98
183,120.47
360,830.24
188,441.96
276,391.88
167,889.18
13
TOTAL HQLA
644,541.68
598,656.78
642,406.02
589,541.70
14
Total Net Cash Outflows
551,077.76
500,103.14
526,674.18
459,006.91
15
Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%)
116.96%
119.71%
121.97%
128.44%
For all the quarters in the current and previous year, the average weighted and unweighted amounts are calculated taking simple average of daily positions.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
422
YES BANK LIMITED
Qualitative Disclosure:
Liquidity Coverage Ratio (‘LCR’) indicates a bank’s ability to meet proportion of the Bank’s liquidity needs as assessed based on 
regulatory guidelines under a 30-day stress period with the High-Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) maintained by the Bank.
HQLA maintained by the Bank primarily comprises of cash reserves in excess of required CRR, Government Securities i.e., Treasury 
Bills, dated securities issued by the Central & State Government as Level 1 along with eligible Corporate Bonds & Commercial 
Papers that qualify as Level 2 HQLA. Further, portfolio of securities forming part of HQLA maintained by the Bank is well diversified 
across various marketable instruments, which shall provide the Bank adequate and timely liquidity to meet the Net Cash Outflow 
as & when required.
The Bank segregates its deposits into various customer segments, viz. Retail (which include deposits from individuals), Small 
Business Customers (Non-Financial Customers with total deposits up to ` 7.5 crore) and Wholesale Customers to determine the 
cash outflows for LCR. Within Wholesale, deposits identified as originated on account of Operational activity by the customers 
based on defined criteria are classified as Operational Deposits. Other deposits i.e. Non-Operational Deposits from wholesale 
customers are further segregated within Non-Financial Corporates and Others to compute the corresponding Cash Outflow for 
LCR. The Bank also includes other contractual funding including a portion of other liabilities which are expected to run down 
in a 30-day time frame in the cash outflows. These classifications, based on regulatory guidelines, are part of the Bank’s LCR 
framework. Expected derivative cash outflows and inflows from outstanding contracts are considered for computation of Net 
Cash Outflow. The Bank considers the other expected inflows in next 30 days as prescribed in the regulatory guidelines to 
compute the Net Cash Outflows for LCR.
As per the regulatory guidelines, Banks are required to maintain minimum LCR at 100% on standalone as well as consolidated 
level at all times i.e. maintain HQLA of a minimum 100% for Net Cash Outflows as assessed based on the regulatory guidelines.
The Bank has implemented robust process to compute and report the LCR in line with regulatory guidelines and is monitored at 
consolidated level. The Bank endeavors to meet the LCR requirement and adequacy of LCR remains a conscious strategy of the 
Bank. The Bank has placed stringent internal threshold as risk appetite for maintenance of LCR to maintain sufficient liquidity and 
compliance to LCR on an ongoing basis.
The Board of Directors of the Bank has empowered the ALCO to monitor and strategize the Balance Sheet profile of the Bank 
within overall Board approved Strategic and Risk framework. In line with the business strategy, ALCO forms an Interest Rate/
Liquidity view for the bank with the help of the economic analysis. ALCO of the Bank channelizes various business segments 
of the Bank to target good quality asset and liability profile to achieve an optimal funding mix which is consistent with prudent 
liquidity, diversity of sources and servicing costs and meet the Bank’s profitability as well as Liquidity requirements with the help 
of robust MIS and Risk Limit architecture of the Bank. Balance Sheet Management Group (BSMG) of the Bank estimates daily 
liquidity requirement of the various business segments and manages the same on consolidated basis as per ALCO guidance.
The daily average LCR for the quarter ended March 31, 2025 is 125.59% (for the quarter ended March 31, 2024: 116.96%), which 
is well above the prudential requirement of 100%.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
423
423
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.5.61 Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR)
Quantitative disclosure
(` in million)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at December 31, 2024
Unweighted value by residual maturity
Weighted 
value
Unweighted value by residual maturity
Weighted 
value
No 
maturity*
< 6 months
6 months 
to < 1yr
≥ 1yr
No 
maturity*
< 6 months
6 months to 
< 1yr
≥ 1yr
ASF Item
1
Capital: (2+3)
486,915.11
 -
 -
 101,510.00
 588,425.11
462,881.09
-
-
133,870.00
596,751.09
2
Regulatory capital
486,915.11
-
-
47,342.00
534,257.11
462,881.09
-
-
58,942.00
521,823.09
3
Other capital instruments
-
-
-
54,168.00
54,168.00
-
-
-
74,928.00
74,928.00
4
Retail deposits and deposits from 
small business customers: (5+6)
523,954.06
719,360.09
16,301.18
18,418.01
1,152,071.80
499,746.08
713,921.97
16,801.45
18,226.70
1,125,649.25
5
Stable deposits
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
6
Less stable deposits *
523,954.06
719,360.09
16,301.18
18,418.01
1,152,071.80
499,746.08
713,921.97
16,801.45
18,226.70
1,125,649.25
7
Wholesale funding: (8+9)
342,243.46
695,401.84
91,312.25
30,617.95
595,072.09
346,333.42
681,276.96
64,627.04
28,513.15
5,74,631.86
8
Operational deposits
149,096.04
-
-
-
74,548.02
168,973.66
-
-
-
84,486.83
9
Other wholesale funding
193,147.42
695,401.84
91,312.25
30,617.95
520,524.07
177,359.76
681,276.96
64,627.04
28,513.15
490,145.03
10
Other liabilities: (11+12)
260,193.45
360,957.14
242,193.12
269,362.63
419,694.58
217,182.10
397,617.10
157,177.41
302,797.01
412,266.32
11
NSFR derivative liabilities
-
-
-
-
-
-
12
All other liabilities and equity not 
included in the above categories
260,193.45
360,957.14
242,193.12
269,362.63
419,694.58
217,182.10
397,617.10
157,177.41
302,797.01
412,266.32
13
Total ASF (1+4+7+10)
2,755,263.58
2,709,298.52
RSF Item
14
Total NSFR high-quality liquid assets 
(HQLA)
43,876.87
42,066.82
15
Deposits held at other financial 
institutions for operational purposes
52,010.62
1,015.44
-
-
26,157.63
39,168.73
-
-
-
19,584.37
16
Performing loans and securities: 
(17+18+19+21+23)
-
678,659.80
341,360.87
1,511,132.02
1,734,497.50
-
7,38,955.46
3,04,232.76
1,461,234.22
1,697,475.41
17
Performing loans to financial 
institutions secured by Level 1 HQLA
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
18
Performing loans to financial 
institutions secured by non-Level 1 
HQLA and unsecured performing loans 
to financial institutions
-
86,409.49
36,366.51
94,127.22
125,271.90
-
95,560.49
33,887.67
97,223.89
128,501.80
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
424
YES BANK LIMITED
(` in million)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at December 31, 2024
Unweighted value by residual maturity
Weighted 
value
Unweighted value by residual maturity
Weighted 
value
No 
maturity*
< 6 months
6 months 
to < 1yr
≥ 1yr
No 
maturity*
< 6 months
6 months to 
< 1yr
≥ 1yr
19
Performing loans to non- financial 
corporate clients, loans to retail and 
small business customers, and loans 
to sovereigns, central banks, and 
PSEs, of which:
-
550,350.24
295,338.56
1,204,470.57
1,420,906.28
-
615,607.23
259,867.35
1,171,227.31
1,407,349.25
20
With a risk weight of less than or equal 
to 35% under the Basel II Standardised 
Approach for credit risk
-
89,502.54
30,134.11
128,690.53
143,467.17
-
110,922.38
25,573.94
129,656.25
152,524.73
21
Performing residential mortgages, of 
which:
-
5,873.49
3,359.21
204,681.10
160,482.58
-
4,450.39
2,898.09
190,050.13
143,842.90
22
With a risk weight of less than or equal 
to 35% under the Basel II Standardised 
Approach for credit risk
-
2,103.56
1,372.26
90,563.50
60,604.18
-
2,229.53
1,352.36
106,869.74
71,256.28
23
Securities that are not in default and 
do not qualify as HQLA, including 
exchange- traded equities
-
36,026.58
6,296.59
7,853.13
27,836.74
-
23,337.35
7,579.65
2,732.89
17,781.46
24
Other assets: (sum of rows 25 to 29)
155,948.96
127,144.23
53,237.85
281,882.45
446,298.03
168,973.53
96,027.79
77,091.07
293,526.29
480,116.17
25
Physical traded commodities, 
including gold
0.00
0.00
-
-
26
Assets posted as initial margin for 
derivative contracts and contributions 
to default funds of CCPs
35,891.65
-
-
30,507.91
44,473.47
-
-
37,802.45
27
NSFR derivative assets
2,201.96
-
-
2,201.96
4,481.91
-
-
4,481.91
28
NSFR derivative liabilities before 
deduction of variation margin posted
4,091.57
-
-
4,091.57
4,086.82
-
-
4,086.82
29
All other assets not included in the 
above categories
158,993.36
84,959.05
53,237.85
281,882.45
409,496.59
168,973.53
42,985.59
77,091.07
293,526.29
433,744.99
30
Off-balance sheet items
 937,072.57  528,731.47  188,466.76
 336,646.90
 78,468.98
876,206.33
548,687.46
163,563.82
330,565.71
75,094.83
31
Total RSF
2,329,299.01
2,314,337.60
32
Net Stable Funding Ratio (%)
118.29
117.07
*for the purpose of NSFR computation, all deposits from Retail and Small Business customer have been considered as “less stable” on a conservative basis.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
425
425
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Particulars
As at September 30, 2024
As at June 30, 2024
Unweighted value by residual maturity
Weighted value
 Unweighted value by residual maturity
 Weighted 
value
No 
maturity*
< 6 months
6 months 
to < 1yr
≥ 1yr
No 
maturity*
< 6 months
6 months 
to < 1yr
≥ 1yr
ASF Item
1
Capital: (2+3)
462,958.94
-
-
133,870.00
596,828.94
461,543.50
-
-
139,412.00
600,955.50
2
Regulatory capital
462,958.94
-
-
61,942.00
524,900.94
461,543.50
-
-
74,134.40
535,677.90
3
Other capital instruments
-
-
-
71,928.00
71,928.00
-
-
-
65,277.60
65,277.60
4
Retail deposits and deposits from 
small business customers: (5+6)
500,174.59
715,217.51
16,596.24
20,523.67
1,129,419.38
463,854.41
685,797.30
11,706.58
21,327.92
1,066,550.38
5
Stable deposits
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
6
Less stable deposits *
500,174.59
715,217.51
16,596.24
20,523.67
1,129,419.38
463,854.41
685,797.30
11,706.58
21,327.92
1,066,550.38
7
Wholesale funding: (8+9)
328,536.31
715,806.05
69,480.75
21,492.57
578,205.06
333,158.61
669,723.58
90,519.10
23,028.43
569,729.08
8
Operational deposits
190,345.25
-
-
-
95,172.62
163,161.31
-
-
-
81,580.66
9
Other wholesale funding
138,191.06
715,806.05
69,480.75
21,492.57
483,032.44
169,997.30
669,723.58
90,519.10
23,028.43
488,148.42
10
Other liabilities: (11+12)
208,340.55
421,017.13
146,699.22
367,394.85
495,845.55
135,553.06
457,982.32
187,561.45
347,403.93
495,876.53
11
NSFR derivative liabilities
-
-
-
2,329.19
-
-
12
All other liabilities and equity not 
included in the above categories
208,340.55
421,017.13
146,699.22
367,394.85
495,845.55
135,553.06
455,653.13
187,561.45
347,403.93
495,876.53
13
Total ASF (1+4+7+10)
2,800,298.93
2,733,111.49
RSF Item
14
Total NSFR high-quality liquid assets 
(HQLA)
44,753.93
45,941.46
15
Deposits held at other financial 
institutions for operational purposes
23,857.85
-
-
-
11,928.93
30,148.13
-
-
-
15,074.07
16
Performing loans and securities: 
(17+18+19+21+23)
-
641,174.73
287,268.07
1,447,721.94
1,646,928.11
-
623,988.15
295,423.72
1,389,782.20
1,596,829.99
17
Performing loans to financial 
institutions secured by Level 1 HQLA
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
18
Performing loans to financial 
institutions secured by non-Level 
1 HQLA and unsecured performing 
loans to financial institutions
-
49,099.29
33,818.57
99,217.97
123,492.15
-
43,298.36
30,205.28
94,525.42
116,122.81
19
Performing loans to non- financial 
corporate clients, loans to retail and 
small business customers, and loans 
to sovereigns, central banks, and 
PSEs, of which:
-
560,296.90
248,144.66
1,144,075.45
1,352,201.10
-
557,306.30
254,620.71
1,096,492.69
1,315,608.79
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
426
YES BANK LIMITED
Particulars
As at September 30, 2024
As at June 30, 2024
Unweighted value by residual maturity
Weighted value
 Unweighted value by residual maturity
 Weighted 
value
No 
maturity*
< 6 months
6 months 
to < 1yr
≥ 1yr
No 
maturity*
< 6 months
6 months 
to < 1yr
≥ 1yr
20
With a risk weight of less than or 
equal to 35% under the Basel II 
Standardised Approach for credit risk
-
78,926.79
25,713.43
122,419.05
131,892.50
-
103,173.36
28,892.58
111,867.53
138,746.87
21
Performing residential mortgages, 
of which:
-
4,276.05
2,735.34
185,700.87
140,280.36
-
4,073.06
2,566.87
181,230.39
136,524.10
22
With a risk weight of less than or 
equal to 35% under the Basel II 
Standardised Approach for credit risk
-
2,138.89
1,268.64
105,355.41
70,184.78
-
2,048.03
1,186.60
1,04,208.53
69,352.86
23
Securities that are not in default and 
do not qualify as HQLA, including 
exchange- traded equities
-
27,502.49
2,569.50
18,727.65
30,954.50
-
19,310.43
8,030.86
17,533.70
28,574.29
24
Other assets: (sum of rows 25 to 29)
169,133.70
182,145.83
46,534.35
315,734.63
521,216.32
160,087.16
171,063.80
14,018.15
367,556.70
525,571.31
25
Physical traded commodities, 
including gold
-
-
-
-
26
Assets posted as initial margin for 
derivative contracts and contributions 
to default funds of CCPs
38,027.59
-
-
32,323.45
32,194.21
-
-
27,365.08
27
NSFR derivative assets
3,515.09
-
-
3,515.09
-
-
-
-
28
NSFR derivative liabilities before 
deduction of variation margin posted
2,255.82
-
-
2,255.82
2,671.70
-
-
2,671.70
29
All other assets not included in the 
above categories
169,133.70
138,347.33
46,534.35
315,734.63
483,121.96
160,087.16
136,197.89
14,018.15
367,556.70
495,534.53
30
Off-balance sheet items
912,584.08
541,264.98
190,656.34
309,859.06
76,882.62
891,180.75
449,501.18
212,065.47
307,501.82
73,631.09
31
Total RSF
2,301,709.91
2,257,047.92
32
Net Stable Funding Ratio (%)
121.66
121.09
*for the purpose of NSFR computation, all deposits from Retail and Small Business customer have been considered as “less stable” on a conservative basis.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
427
427
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in million)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
 As at December 31, 2023
Unweighted value by residual maturity
Weighted 
value
 Unweighted value by residual maturity
 Weighted 
value
No 
maturity*
< 6 months
6 months 
to < 1yr
≥ 1yr
No 
maturity*
< 6 months
6 months 
to < 1yr
≥ 1yr
ASF Item
1
Capital: (2+3)
432,099.28
-
-
139,412.00
571,511.28
417,885.60
-
-
139,412.00
557,297.60
2
Regulatory capital
432,099.28
-
-
75,224.40
507,323.68
417,885.60
-
-
86,824.40
504,710.00
3
Other capital instruments
-
-
-
64,187.60
64,187.60
-
-
-
52,587.60
52,587.60
4
Retail deposits and deposits from small 
business customers: (5+6)
477,585.18
675,988.68
14,128.17
21,649.09
1,072,580.91
439,576.34
492,635.34
181,536.57
21,471.38
1,023,844.80
5
Stable deposits
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
6
Less stable deposits *
477,585.18
675,988.68
14,128.17
21,649.09
1,072,580.91
439,576.34
492,635.34
181,536.57
21,471.38
1,023,844.80
7
Wholesale funding: (8+9)
310,046.10
749,866.85
94,693.68
37,601.10
614,904.42
256,742.42
550,441.48
227,819.73
27,657.04
545,158.86
8
Operational deposits
180,932.76
-
-
-
90,466.38
130,036.36
-
-
-
65,018.18
9
Other wholesale funding
129,113.34
749,866.85
94,693.68
37,601.10
524,438.04
126,706.06
550,441.48
227,819.73
27,657.04
480,140.68
10
Other liabilities: (11+12)
232,354.25
322,990.94
206,744.82
360,455.02
497,674.29
304,174.31
136,537.94
270,036.79
302,893.96
437,912.35
11
NSFR derivative liabilities
144.39
-
-
-
-
-
12
All other liabilities and equity not 
included in the above categories
232,354.25
322,846.55
206,744.82
360,455.02
497,674.29
304,174.31
136,537.94
270,036.79
302,893.96
437,912.35
13
Total ASF (1+4+7+10)
2,756,670.90
2,564,213.61
RSF Item
14
Total NSFR high-quality liquid assets 
(HQLA)
43,261.86
38,232.00
15
Deposits held at other financial 
institutions for operational purposes
2,686.30
-
-
-
1,343.15
4,080.03
-
-
-
2,040.02
16
Performing loans and securities: 
(17+18+19+21+23)
-
647,711.37
324,309.96
1,356,848.79
1,594,644.82
-
608,926.09
291,128.84
1,309,524.61
1,518,753.75
17
Performing loans to financial institutions 
secured by Level 1 HQLA
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
18
Performing loans to financial institutions 
secured by non-Level 1 HQLA and 
unsecured performing loans to financial 
institutions
-
47,202.81
26,211.07
86,447.50
106,633.46
-
38,287.69
16,252.00
65,301.00
79,170.15
19
Performing loans to non- financial 
corporate clients, loans to retail and 
small business customers, and loans to 
sovereigns, central banks, and PSEs, of 
which:
-
540,543.48
280,939.88
1,078,405.04
1,307,400.02
-
522,378.44
254,778.24
1,057,295.48
1,267,386.14
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
428
YES BANK LIMITED
(` in million)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
 As at December 31, 2023
Unweighted value by residual maturity
Weighted 
value
 Unweighted value by residual maturity
 Weighted 
value
No 
maturity*
< 6 months
6 months 
to < 1yr
≥ 1yr
No 
maturity*
< 6 months
6 months 
to < 1yr
≥ 1yr
20
With a risk weight of less than or equal 
to 35% under the Basel II Standardised 
Approach for credit risk
-
97,191.22
26,453.27
99,929.72
126,776.56
-
82,617.94
25,812.05
99,466.83
118,868.43
21
Performing residential mortgages, of 
which:
-
3,901.55
2,412.19
180,667.72
135,576.92
-
3,698.63
2,263.39
173,105.74
129,250.16
22
With a risk weight of less than or equal 
to 35% under the Basel II Standardised 
Approach for credit risk
-
2,008.24
1,132.69
105,737.54
70,299.86
-
1,934.74
1,071.32
104,353.62
69,332.88
23
Securities that are not in default and do 
not qualify as HQLA, including exchange- 
traded equities
-
56,063.53
14,746.82
11,328.53
45,034.43
-
44,561.33
17,835.21
13,822.39
42,947.30
24
Other assets: (sum of rows 25 to 29)
159,422.65
73,313.58
105,605.50
380,001.28
530,598.12
161,153.43
132,633.66
105,592.18
320,204.88
522,990.51
25
Physical traded commodities, including 
gold
-
-
-
-
26
Assets posted as initial margin for 
derivative contracts and contributions to 
default funds of CCPs
27,628.72
-
-
23,484.41
26,985.73
-
-
22,937.87
27
NSFR derivative assets
-
-
-
-
2,817.08
-
-
2,817.08
28
NSFR derivative liabilities before 
deduction of variation margin posted
2,694.86
-
-
2,694.86
2,732.82
-
-
2,732.82
29
All other assets not included in the above 
categories
159,422.65
42,990.00
105,605.50
380,001.28
504,418.85
161,153.43
100,098.03
105,592.18
320,204.88
494,502.74
30
Off-balance sheet items
974,672.62
452,422.01
189,834.88
306,929.06
77,209.21
673,820.86
466,212.16
148,672.41
251,096.61
59,670.48
31
Total RSF
2,247,057.16
2,141,686.76
32
Net Stable Funding Ratio (%)
122.68
119.73
*for the purpose of NSFR computation, all deposits from Retail and Small Business customer have been considered as “less stable” on a conservative basis.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
429
429
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in million)
Particulars
As at September 30, 2023
As at June 30, 2023
Unweighted value by residual maturity
Weighted 
value
 Unweighted value by residual maturity
 Weighted 
value
No 
maturity*
< 6 months
6 months to 
< 1yr
≥ 1yr
No 
maturity*
< 6 months
6 months to 
< 1yr
≥ 1yr
ASF Item
1
Capital: (2+3)
4,09,348.63
0.00
0.00
1,47,694.40
5,57,043.00
4,15,673.45
0.00
0.00
1,40,502.00
5,56,175.40
2
Regulatory capital
4,09,348.63
0.00
0.00
1,03,106.80
5,12,455.40
4,15,673.45
0.00
0.00
1,03,106.80
5,18,780.20
3
Other capital instruments
0.00
0.00
0.00
44,587.60
44,587.60
0.00
0.00
0.00
37,395.20
37,395.20
4
Retail deposits and deposits from 
small business customers: (5+6)
4,09,773.73
4,81,054.49
1,72,083.59
20,872.63
9,77,493.30
3,89,937.90
4,70,422.08
1,57,725.65
19,601.25
9,35,878.30
5
Stable deposits
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
6
Less stable deposits *
4,09,773.73
4,81,054.49
1,72,083.59
20,872.63
9,77,493.30
3,89,937.90
4,70,422.08
1,57,725.65
19,601.25
9,35,878.30
7
Wholesale funding: (8+9)
2,48,719.80
5,07,910.79
2,23,029.90
29,805.33
5,19,635.60
2,70,390.72
4,03,251.42
2,47,377.78
23,227.85
4,83,737.90
8
Operational deposits
1,18,841.94
0.00
0.00
0.00
59,421.00
1,12,330.50
0.00
0.00
0.00
56,165.30
9
Other wholesale funding
1,29,877.86
5,07,910.79
2,23,029.90
29,805.33
4,60,214.60
1,58,060.22
4,03,251.42
2,47,377.78
23,227.85
4,27,572.60
10
Other liabilities: (11+12)
3,26,713.05
0.00
2,30,289.06
2,82,363.60
3,97,508.10
4,30,990.58
3,429.86
3,14,614.23
2,81,726.23
4,39,033.40
11
NSFR derivative liabilities
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,429.86
0.00
0.00
12
All other liabilities and equity not 
included in the above categories
3,26,713.05
0.00
2,30,289.06
2,82,363.60
3,97,508.10
4,30,990.58
0.00
3,14,614.23
2,81,726.23
4,39,033.40
13
Total ASF (1+4+7+10)
24,51,680.00
24,14,825.00
RSF Item
14
Total NSFR high-quality liquid 
assets (HQLA)
35,960.10
59,899.90
15
Deposits held at other financial 
institutions for operational 
purposes
4,695.89
0.00
0.00
0.00
2,347.95
4,004.02
0.00
0.00
0.00
2,002.01
16
Performing loans and securities: 
(17+18+19+21+23)
0.00
6,43,668.47
1,59,198.61
13,71,565.05
14,88,596.40
0.00
5,52,422.51
1,40,649.00
13,90,916.85
14,91,538.20
17
Performing loans to financial 
institutions secured by Level 1 
HQLA
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
18
Performing loans to financial 
institutions secured by non-Level 
1 HQLA and unsecured performing 
loans to financial institutions
0.00
1,03,889.77
4,751.81
44,115.91
61,736.78
0.00
43,265.85
3,048.16
41,368.50
49,382.46
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
430
YES BANK LIMITED
(` in million)
Particulars
As at September 30, 2023
As at June 30, 2023
Unweighted value by residual maturity
Weighted 
value
 Unweighted value by residual maturity
 Weighted 
value
No 
maturity*
< 6 months
6 months to 
< 1yr
≥ 1yr
No 
maturity*
< 6 months
6 months to 
< 1yr
≥ 1yr
19
Performing loans to non- financial 
corporate clients, loans to retail 
and small business customers, and 
loans to sovereigns, central banks, 
and PSEs, of which:
0.00
4,82,200.26
1,45,687.94
10,93,776.48
12,25,625.43
0.00
4,59,801.67
1,28,398.18
11,13,135.38
12,19,909.19
20
With a risk weight of less than or 
equal to 35% under the Basel II 
Standardised Approach for credit 
risk
0.00
63,440.84
8,509.99
90,143.36
94,568.60
0.00
61,680.15
3,178.34
1,01,779.04
98,585.62
21
Performing residential mortgages, 
of which:
0.00
690.23
451.81
2,21,295.38
1,58,115.87
0.00
760.62
574.38
2,14,081.00
1,74,653.05
22
With a risk weight of less than or 
equal to 35% under the Basel II 
Standardised Approach for credit 
risk
0.00
4.26
16.58
1,52,781.16
99,318.17
0.00
6.10
7.96
1,16,465.55
75,716.66
23
Securities that are not in default 
and do not qualify as HQLA, 
including exchange- traded equities
0.00
56,888.21
8,307.05
12,377.28
43,118.32
0.00
48,594.37
8,628.28
22,331.97
47,593.50
24
Other assets: (sum of rows 25 
to 29)
3,97,882.47
1,52,827.37
5,065.77
53,239.79
5,48,376.92
4,96,030.82
80,453.00
0.00
13,250.00
5,63,694.13
25
Physical traded commodities, 
including gold
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
26
Assets posted as initial margin 
for derivative contracts and 
contributions to default funds of 
CCPs
24,342.83
0.00
0.00
20,691.40
22,155.67
0.00
0.00
18,832.32
27
NSFR derivative assets
1,461.10
0.00
0.00
1,461.10
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
28
NSFR derivative liabilities before 
deduction of variation margin 
posted
3,350.71
0.00
0.00
3,350.71
3,694.39
0.00
0.00
3,694.39
29
All other assets not included in the 
above categories
3,97,882.47
1,23,672.73
5,065.77
53,239.79
5,22,873.71
4,96,030.82
54,602.94
0.00
13,250.00
5,41,167.42
30
Off-balance sheet items
6,31,319.28
2,99,752.73
2,51,396.38
2,92,802.49
56,884.51
5,65,332.13
3,77,206.24
1,80,932.78
2,19,517.41
51,596.30
31
Total RSF
21,32,165.88
21,68,730.54
32
Net Stable Funding Ratio (%)
114.99
111.35
*for the purpose of NSFR computation, all deposits from Retail and Small Business customer have been considered as “less stable” on a conservative basis.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
431
431
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Qualitative Disclosure:
Net Stable Funding Ratio (‘NSFR’) is defined as amount of Available Stable Funding to fulfil the amount of Required Stable Funding.
Available Stable Funding (‘ASF’) is defined as the portion of capital and liabilities expected to be reliable over 1 year period. ASF is 
a function of the source of liability along with residual maturities of such liabilities.
Required Stable Funding (‘RSF’) is defined as the funding required for assets and off-balance sheet exposures over 1 year period. 
RSF is a function of the underlying liquidity characteristics and residual maturities of various assets.
The purpose of NSFR is to ensure that the bank has sufficient stable funding available to fulfill the funding requirements by 
restricting the reliance on unstable short-term funding to finance long-term assets requiring stable funding. NSFR reduces 
long-term refinancing risk over longer-term time horizon (over 1 year) of the Bank by measuring the extent of stable sources of 
funds with the Bank to fund its long-term assets.
As per the regulatory guidelines, Banks are required to maintain minimum NSFR of 100% on standalone as well as consolidated 
level at all times, as assessed based on regulatory guidelines.
The Bank has implemented robust process to compute and report NSFR in line with regulatory guidelines and is monitored at 
consolidated level. The Bank endeavors to meet the NSFR requirement and adequacy of NSFR remains a conscious strategy 
of the Bank. The Bank has placed stringent internal threshold as risk appetite for maintenance of NSFR to maintain sufficient 
liquidity and compliance to NSFR on an ongoing basis.
The Board of Directors of the Bank have empowered ALCO-ALM to monitor and strategize the Balance Sheet profile of the Bank 
within overall Board approved Strategic and Risk framework. In line with the business strategy, ALCO-ALM forms an Interest Rate/
Liquidity view for the bank. ALCO-ALM channelizes various business segments to target good quality asset and liability profile 
to achieve an optimal funding mix which is consistent with prudent liquidity, diversity of sources and servicing costs and meet 
the Bank’s profitability as well as Liquidity requirements with the help of robust MIS and Risk Limit architecture. Balance Sheet 
Management Group (‘BSMG’) of the Bank estimates daily liquidity requirement of the various business segments and manages 
the same on consolidated basis as per ALCO-ALM guidance.
As at March 31, 2025, Bank maintained NSFR at 118.29% (March 31, 2024: 122.68%), which is well above the prudential 
requirement of 100%.
17.5.62 Intra-Group Exposures to Subsidiaries
The Bank has one subsidiary “YES Securities (India) Limited.”
Below mentioned are details of Intra-Group Exposure as of March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
(` in million)
Particulars
As of 
March 31, 2025
As of 
March 31, 2024
Total amount of intra-group exposures
2,450
2,450
Total amount of top-20 intra-group exposures
2,450
2,450
Percentage of intra-group exposures to total exposure of the bank on borrowers / customers (%)
0.05%
0.05%
During the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, the intra-group exposures were within the limits specified by RBI.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
432
YES BANK LIMITED
17.5.63 Transfers to Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEAF)
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Opening balance of the amount transferred to DEAF
310.14
203.76
Add: Amounts transferred to DEAF during the year
154.62
118.33
Less: Amounts reimbursed by DEAF towards claims
5.55
11.95
Closing balance of amounts transferred to DEAF*
459.21
310.14
*Amount transferred to DEA Fund, as disclosed above, are also included under ‘Schedule 12 - Contingent Liabilities - Other items for which the 
bank is contingently liable’.
17.5.64 Investor Education and Protection Fund
The Unclaimed dividend amount due to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) during the year ended 
March 31, 2025 and year ended March 31, 2024 has been transferred without any delay.
17.5.65 Marketing and distribution
The Bank has received a fee of ` 1,579.42 million in respect of the marketing and distribution function (excluding bancassurance 
business) during the year ended March 31, 2025 (Previous year: ` 1,807.78 million).
17.5.66 Implementation of IFRS converged Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)
The Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’), as notified under section 133 of the Companies Act 2013 read with Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended from time to time, have been formulated keeping the Indian economic and legal 
environment in view and with a view to converge with IFRS Standards. The RBI through its notification No. RBI/2018-2019/146 
DBR.BP.BC. No.29/21.07.001/ 2018-19 dated March 22, 2019 on “Deferral of Implementation of Indian Accounting Standards 
(Ind AS)” notified to all the scheduled commercial banks that legislative amendments recommended by the RBI are under 
consideration of the Government of India. Accordingly, RBI has decided to defer the implementation of Ind AS till further notice.
As per RBI directions, the Bank has taken following steps so far:
	
The Bank is submitting half yearly Proforma Ind AS financial statements to the RBI.
	
Formed Steering Committee for Ind AS implementation (‘the IFRS (Ind AS) Management Committee’). The IFRS (Ind AS) 
Management Committee (Committee) comprises Chief Financial Officer (CFO) (Chairman), Chief Risk Officer (CRO), Chief 
Operating Officer (COO), Chief Information Officer (CIO) as members and senior management from Financial Management, 
Risk Management and Treasury Operations as invitees. The Committee oversees the progress of Ind AS implementation 
in the Bank and provides guidance on critical aspects of the implementation such as Ind AS technical requirements, 
systems and processes, business impact, people and project management. The Committee closely reviews progress of the 
implementation and related matters.
	
The Committee gives updates to the Audit Committee of the Board and to the Board on preparedness for migration to Ind 
AS on a periodic basis.
	
The Bank will continue to liaise with RBI and industry bodies on various aspects pertaining to Ind AS implementation.
17.5.67 Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium
(` in million) 
Sr. No. Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
i)
Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium
3,726.92
 3,097.78
ii)
Arrears in payment of DICGC premium
-
 -
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
433
433
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
During the year ended March 31, 2025 ` 3,442.67 million (previous year ` 2,861.51 million) charged to Profit & Loss account 
on accrual basis.
17.5.68 Unhedged Foreign Currency Exposure of Bank’s Customer
The Bank has in place a policy on managing credit risk arising out of unhedged foreign currency exposures of its borrowers. 
The objective of this policy is to maximize the hedging on foreign currency exposures of borrowers by reviewing their foreign 
currency product portfolio and encouraging them to hedge the unhedged portion. In line with the policy, assessment of unhedged 
foreign currency exposure is a part of assessment of borrowers and is undertaken while proposing limits or at the review stage. 
Additionally, at the time of sanctioning limits for all clients, the Bank stipulates a limit on the unhedged foreign currency exposure 
of the client (as a % of total foreign currency exposure sanctioned by the Bank) after considering factors such as internal rating 
of the borrower, size, possibility of natural hedging, sophistication of borrower and maturity of borrower’s financial systems, 
relative size of unhedged foreign currency exposure with respect to total borrowings of the client, etc. Further, the Bank reviews 
the unhedged foreign currency exposure across its portfolio on a periodic basis. The Bank also maintains incremental provision 
and capital towards the unhedged foreign currency exposures of its borrowers in line with the extant RBI guidelines.
The Bank has maintained provision of ` 870.59 million (Previous year of ` 856.64 million) and additional capital of ` 2,129.35 million 
(Previous year of ` 3,022.42 million) on account of Unhedged Foreign Currency Exposure of its borrowers as at March 31, 2025.
17.5.69 Provisioning pertaining to Fraud Accounts
The details on the number and amount of frauds as well as the provisioning thereon are given below:
 Particulars
As of 
March 31, 2025
As of 
March 31, 2024
Number of frauds reported $
156
127
Amount involved in fraud (` million) $
4,031.03
 4,704.42
Amount involved in fraud net of recoveries / write-offs as at the end of the year (` million)
154.37
 4,428.93
Amount of provision made for such frauds (` million)
147.93
 4,403.10
Amount of Unamortised provision debited from ‘other reserves’ as at the end of the year  
(` million) *
6.45
 25.83
$ Excludes 2,652 cases (Previous year 4,802 cases) of Digital Payments Frauds amounting to ` 99.83 million (previous year `146.86 million) 
reported basis RBI advisory.
*With respect to six borrower accounts classified as fraud during the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has debited ` 6.45 million from 
Revenue and other Reserves on account of unamortised fraud provision in terms of RBI circular DOR.No.STR.REC.55/21.04.048/2021-22 dated 
October 1, 2021 (Previous year: ` 25.83 million).
17.5.70 Disclosure of complaints
A. Summary information on complaints received by the Bank from customers and from the Offices of Banking Ombudsman 
(‘OBOs’)
Sr. 
No
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Complaints received by the bank from its customers
1
Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year
1,503
2,097
2
Number of complaints received during the year
201,318*
56,452
3
Number of complaints disposed during the year
193,695
57,046
3.1
Of which, number of complaints rejected by the bank
17,810
7,806
4
Number of complaints pending at the end of the year
9,126
1,503
Maintainable complaints received by the bank from OBOs
5
Number of maintainable complaints received by the bank from OBOs
2,513**
2,804
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
434
YES BANK LIMITED
Sr. 
No
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
5.1
Of 5, number of complaints resolved in favour of the bank by Bos
1,121
1,235
5.2
Of 5, number of complaints resolved through conciliation/mediation/advisories 
issued by BOs
1,392
1,569
5.3
Of 5, number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by BOs against the 
bank
-
-
6
Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time (other than those 
appealed)
-
-
Note: Maintainable complaints refer to complaints on the grounds specifically mentioned in Integrated Ombudsman Scheme 2021 and covered 
within the ambit of the Scheme.
* Pursuant to a comprehensive review of the complaint classification framework, and in alignment with the Bank’s commitment to becoming a 
leading customer-centric institution, the criteria for classifying customer references as complaints have been revised. Accordingly, the number of 
customer complaints reported for FY24 and FY25 are not comparable.
**Basis clarification/logic shared by Consumer Education and Protection Department (CEPD) officials to consider “Complaints disposed against 
the Bank” as “Maintainable Complaints” received by the bank.
B. Top five grounds of complaints received by the bank from customers1
Grounds of complaints, (i.e. complaints relating to)
Number of 
complaints 
pending at the 
beginning of 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
received 
during the 
year
% increase/ 
decrease in 
the number 
of complaints 
received over 
the previous 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending at 
the end of the 
year
Of 5, number 
of complaints 
pending 
beyond 30 
days
1
2
3
4
5
6
FY2025*
Credit Cards
56
78,557
1,869%
4,543
755
Internet/Mobile/Electronic Banking
811
43,406
112%
2,156
485
Loans and advances
165
23,364
317%
755
34
ATM/Debit Cards
218
18,725
27%
473
46
Account opening/difficulty in operation of accounts
17
5,686
400%
157
13
Others
236
31,580
203%
1,042
60
Total
1,503
201,318
257%
9,126
1,393
FY 2024
Internet/Mobile/Electronic Banking
1,141
20,494
(14%)
811
101
ATM/Debit Cards
534
14,790
(23%)
218
12
Loans and advances
112
5,604
(5%)
165
0
Credit Cards
125
3,990
(17%)
56
5
Account opening/difficulty in operation of accounts
7
1,137
169%
17
0
Others
178
10,437
20%
236
0
Total
2,097
56,452
(10%)
1,503
118
The above disclosure does not include complaints redressed within the next working day.
* Pursuant to a comprehensive review of the complaint classification framework, and in alignment with the Bank’s commitment to becoming a 
leading customer-centric institution, the criteria for classifying customer references as complaints have been revised. Accordingly, the number of 
customer complaints reported for FY24 and FY25 are not comparable.
1GRI 2-16
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
435
435
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.5.71 Dues to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 which came into force from October 2, 2006, certain 
disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and Medium enterprises. There have been ` 283.43 million (Previous 
year ` 1,527.55 million) worth bills which were paid with delays to micro and small enterprises. There have been ` 3.71 million 
worth bills remaining unpaid with delays as at March 31, 2025 (Previous year: ` 16.63 million). Interest accrued and remaining 
unpaid amounting to ` 0.28 million on bills remaining unpaid with delays (Previous year: ` 1.26 million). However, there have been 
no reported cases of demand of interest on these payments.
17.5.72 Securitization Transactions (separate table if there is any securitized transactions)
The Bank has not done any securitization transactions during the year ended March 31, 2025 and year ended March 31, 2024. 
Hence requirement of master direction of Securitisation of Standard Assets dated September 24, 2021 is not applicable.
17.5.73 Software Capitalized under Fixed Assets
The Bank has capitalized software under Fixed Asset amounting to ` 4,789.86 million and ` 3,800.16 million during the year 
ended March 31, 2025 and financial year March 31, 2024 respectively.
(` in million)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
At cost at March 31st of preceding year
15,266.92
 11,466.76
Additions during the year
4,789.86
 3,800.16
Deductions during the year
(2.26)
 -
Depreciation to date
 (12,069.53)
 (10,133.33)
Net block
7,984.99
 5,133.60
17.5.74 Provision for Long Term contracts
The Bank has a process whereby periodically all long term contracts (including derivative contracts) are assessed for material 
foreseeable losses. At the year end, the Bank has reviewed and recorded adequate provision as required under any law / 
accounting standards for material foreseeable losses on such long term contracts (including derivative contracts) in the books of 
account and disclosed the same under the relevant notes in the financial statements.
17.5.76 PSLCs sold and purchased during the year ended March 31, 2025 and year ended March 31, 2024
(` in million)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Purchased
Sold
Purchased
Sold
PSLC – Agriculture
-
201,800.00
-
52,110.00
PSLC - SF/MF
175,000.00
-
396,632.50
-
PSLC - Micro Enterprises
100,000.00
140,830.00
-
-
PSLC – General
-
450,000.00
-
232,000.00
17.5.76 Other income/expenditure
Miscellaneous income includes issuance business income of ` 5,821.46 million (Previous year: ` 4,403.23 million) exceeding 1% 
of total income.
Other expenditure includes Loan sourcing fees and Collection charges of ` 9,719.79 million (Previous year: ` 11,673.39), 
Professional Fees and Commission of ` 9,534.49 million (Previous year: ` 6,318.59), IT related expenditure of ` 9,257.58 million 
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
436
YES BANK LIMITED
(Previous year: ` 7,011.13 million), Issuance Business of ` 4,541.57 million (Previous year: ` 3,600.79 million), and PSLC of 
` 3,238.26 million (Previous year: ` 3,452.12) exceeding 1% of total income.
17.5.77 Business transfer
FY2025:
Not applicable
FY2024:
Pursuant to the approval in the Board Meeting held on January 27, 2024, the Bank entered into a business transfer agreement 
to transfer Investment Banking and Merchant Banking Business from its wholly owned subsidiary company YES Securities 
(India) Limited to the Bank (‘the transaction’). As per the terms of the business transfer agreement, the transaction has been 
consummated with transfer of assets and liabilities pertaining to the said businesses during the quarter ended December 31, 
2023 with effective date of transfer as January 1, 2024. The Bank paid ` 20.60 million as purchase consideration in cash to 
acquire net identifiable assets of ` 10.95 million. The resultant difference of ` 9.65 million between the purchase consideration 
and the value of net identifiable assets acquired has been charged off to profit and loss account.
17.5.78 Portfolio-level information on the use of funds raised from green deposits
The Bank has not sourced any green deposits during the year ended March 31, 2025 and year ended March 31, 2024.
17.5.79 Remuneration paid to Non-Executive Directors
The details of the remuneration paid to Non-Executive Directors (post approval of the Board of Directors) are given below:
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Fixed Remuneration*
19.00
19.90
Sitting fees
29.30
23.93
Grand Total
48.30
43.83
* Includes remuneration paid to part-time chairman.
17.5.80 Description of Contingent Liabilities
Sr. 
No.
Contingent Liabilities
Brief
1.
Claims against 
the Bank not 
acknowledged as debts
The Bank is a party to various legal and tax proceedings in the normal course of business. The Bank does not 
expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s financial conditions, 
results of operations or cash flows.
2.
Liability on account of 
forward exchange and 
derivative contracts.
The Bank enters into foreign exchange contracts, currency options, forward rate agreements, currency swaps and 
interest rate swaps with interbank participants and customers. Forward exchange contracts are commitments to 
buy or sell foreign currency at a future date at the contracted rate. Currency swaps are commitments to exchange 
cash flows by way of interest/principal in one currency against another, based on predetermined rates. Interest 
rate swaps are commitments to exchange fixed and floating interest rate cash flows. The notional amounts of 
financial instruments of such foreign exchange contracts and derivatives provide a basis for comparison with 
instruments recognised on the balance sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows 
involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Bank’s exposure to credit 
or price risks. The derivative instruments become favorable (assets) or unfavorable (liabilities) as a result of 
fluctuations in market rates or prices relative to their terms. The aggregate contractual or notional amount of 
derivative financial instruments on hand, the extent to which instruments are favorable or unfavorable and, thus 
the aggregate fair values of derivative financial assets and liabilities can fluctuate significantly.
Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
437
437
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Sr. 
No.
Contingent Liabilities
Brief
3.
Guarantees given on 
behalf of constituents,
acceptances, 
endorsements and 
other obligations
As a part of its commercial banking activities the Bank issues documentary credit and guarantees on behalf of 
its customers. Documentary credits such as letters of credit enhance the credit standing of the customers of the 
Bank. Guarantees generally represent irrevocable assurances that the Bank will make payments in the event of 
the customer failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations.
4.
Other items for 
which the Bank is 
contingently liable
Purchase of securities pending settlement, capital commitments, amount deposited with RBI under Depositor 
Education Awareness Fund (DEAF), bill re-discounting, Foreign Exchange Contracts (Tom & Spot), Custodian 
operations, Undrawn partial credit enhancement facilities, When Issued (‘WI’) securities. This includes the 
amount that the Bank is obligated to pay under capital contracts, letter of undertaking and indemnity letters.
Refer Schedule 12 for amounts relating to contingent liability
Prior period comparatives
Previous year’s figures have been regrouped where necessary to conform to current year classification.
For G. M. Kapadia & Co.
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 104767W
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
YES BANK Limited
CIN: L65190MH2003PLC143249
Atul Shah 
Partner
Membership No:  039569
Rama Subramaniam Gandhi 
Chairman
(DIN: 03341633)
Sanjay Khemani 
Director
(DIN: 00072812)
Prashant Kumar 
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN: 07562475)
For C N K & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 101961W/W100036
Suresh Agaskar
Partner 
Membership No: 110321
Rajan Pental
Executive Director 
(DIN: 08432870)
Manish Jain
Executive Director
(DIN: 10774800)
Niranjan Banodkar
Chief Financial Officer
Mumbai 
April 19, 2025
Sanjay Abhyankar
Company Secretary
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
438
YES BANK LIMITED
To the Members of
YES BANK Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial 
statements of YES BANK Limited (hereinafter referred to 
as the ‘Bank’ or ‘Holding Company’) and its subsidiary (the 
Holding Company and its subsidiary together referred to as 
‘the Group’), which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet 
as at March 31, 2025, the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 
and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then 
ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, 
including a summary of the significant accounting policies and 
other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as the 
‘Consolidated Financial Statements’).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, and based on the 
consideration of report of the other auditor on separate 
financial statements and on the other financial information of 
the subsidiary, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements 
give the information required by the section 29 of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 as well as the Companies Act, 2013 (the 
‘Act’) and circulars and guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank 
of India, in the manner so required for banking companies and 
give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, including the Accounting 
Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act, read with 
Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 as amended 
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the extent applicable, of the consolidated state of affairs of 
the Bank as at March 31, 2025, and its consolidated profit, and 
its consolidated cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (‘SAs’) specified under Section 143 (10) of 
the Act. Our responsibilities under those SAs are further 
described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements’ section of our report. 
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Code 
of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India (‘the ICAI’) together with the ethical requirements that are 
relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements 
under the provisions of the Act, and the Rules thereunder, 
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained, is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on 
the consolidated financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the 
consolidated financial statements of the current year. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit 
of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and 
in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. We have determined the 
matters described below to be the key audit matters to be 
communicated in our report:
Key Audit Matters
Auditor’s Response
Identification, classification and provisioning of non-performing advances (NPA)
Refer to schedule 9, read with relevant Notes relating to provisions 
and contingencies, disclosures with regard Asset Quality in respect of 
movement of Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) and related provisions 
respectively.
As required under prudential norms on Income Recognition and Asset 
Classification and Provisioning related to Advances read with relevant 
circulars, notifications, and directives issued by the Reserve Bank of 
India (RBI) in respect of identification, classification and provisioning on 
such NPAs, which were collectively considered by the Bank till March 
31, 2025, identifies and classifies NPA advances into Sub-standard, 
Doubtful and Loss and makes appropriate provisions.
Our audit approach included testing the design, operating effectiveness 
of internal controls and substantive audit procedures in respect of 
identification, classification and provisioning of NPA In particular:
	
Evaluated the Bank’s internal control system in adhering to the 
relevant RBI guidelines regarding identification, classification 
and provisioning of NPA;
	
Tested key IT systems/ applications used and their design and 
implementation as well as operational effectiveness of relevant 
controls, including involvement of manual process and manual 
controls in relation to identification and classification viz., sub-
standard, doubtful and loss with reference to their days-past-
due (DPD) status and provisioning pertaining to NPA;
439
439
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Key Audit Matters
Auditor’s Response
The Bank, as per its governing framework, made NPA provisions 
based on Management’s assessment of the degree of impairment of 
the advances subject to and guided by minimum provisioning levels 
prescribed under RBI guidelines.
The identification, classification and provisioning of NPAs has been 
identified is a Key Audit Matter as the Bank has significant credit 
risk exposure to a large number of borrowers across various sectors, 
products, industries and geographies and there is a high degree of 
complexity, uncertainty and judgment involved in recoverability of 
advances, nature of transactions and estimation of provisions thereon 
and identification of accounts to be written off.
	
Test checked advances to examine the validity of the recorded 
amounts, loan documentation, examined the statement of 
accounts, indicators of impairment, impairment provision for 
non-performing assets, and compliance with asset classification 
and provisioning pertaining to advances.
	
Testing of controls for computation of provision of NPA and its 
compliance with board approved policy and RBI regulations.
	
Undertaken the walkthrough for the automated E-NPA 
system and tested the core functionality for selected samples 
considering the audit universe.
	
Re-performed, for a sample of retail and corporate portfolios, 
as part of our substantive audit procedures the calculation of 
provisions, to determine the accuracy of the same;
	
Assessed the adequacy of disclosures against the RBI 
regulations.
Information Technology (IT) Systems and General Controls
The Bank’s key financial accounting and reporting processes are 
highly dependent on Core Banking and Treasury Solutions and 
other supporting software and hardware controls. The volume of 
transactions processed and recorded is huge and hence the IT controls 
are required to ensure that applications process data as expected 
and that changes are made in an appropriate manner. The Bank’s IT 
control framework includes automated, semi-automated and manual 
controls designed to address identified risks. IT controls are stated in 
Entity Level Controls (ELC), IT General Controls (ITGC) and IT Application 
Controls (ITAC). Such controls contribute to risk mitigation of erroneous 
output data.
We have identified IT Controls Framework as a Key Audit Matter 
as the Bank’s business is highly dependent on technology. The IT 
environment is complex and the design and operating effectiveness 
of IT controls have a direct impact on its financial reporting process. 
Such controls provide assurance on the integrity and completeness of 
data processed through various IT applications which are used for the 
preparation of financial reports.
Our audit approach/procedures included the following:
	
We have planned, designed and carried out the desired audit 
procedures and sample checked, taking into consideration the IT 
systems of the Bank.
	
Assessment and identification of key IT applications including 
those identified by the management for audit trail (audit log) 
further verifying, testing, and reviewing the design and operating 
effectiveness of the IT system based on reports and other 
financial and non-financial information generated from the 
system on a test check basis.
	
Gaining understanding of IT controls framework through 
Walkthrough of processes. We also discussed and referred to 
reports of internal auditors, Internal Financial Control and other 
assurance functions in carrying out our audit procedures.
	
The IT audit specialists (who are integral part of audit team) have 
carried out testing of effectiveness of general and application 
controls.
	
We also tested key automated and manual business cycle 
controls and logic for system generated reports relevant to the 
audit; including testing of compensating controls or performed 
alternate procedures to assess whether there were any 
unaddressed IT risks that would materially impact the Financial 
Statements.
	
In ITGC testing, on sample basis, we reviewed control areas 
such as User Management, Change Management, Physical & 
Environmental Security, Creation and maintenance of edit logs, 
Backup and Restoration etc.
We have also carried out other audit procedures like substantive 
testing, analytical procedures etc. to verify the accuracy of the data 
generated from the IT system.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
440
YES BANK LIMITED
Information other than the consolidated financial statements 
and Auditor’s Report thereon
The Bank’s management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the Other Information. The other information 
comprises the Management Discussion and Analysis, 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report, Directors’ 
Report forming part of the Annual Report, but does not include 
the Standalone Financial Statements, Consolidated Financial 
Statements and our auditor’s report thereon and the Pillar 
III Disclosures under Basel III Capital Regulation, Leverage 
Ratio, Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio. 
The Annual Report is expected to be made available to us after 
the date of this auditor's report.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not 
cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the Other Information 
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing 
so, consider whether the Other Information is materially 
inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated.
When we read the other information, if we conclude that 
there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to 
communicate the matter to those charged with governance.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with 
Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements
The Bank’s management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the 
Act with respect to the preparation and presentation of 
these consolidated financial statements that give a true and 
fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated 
financial performance and consolidated cash flows of the 
Group in accordance with the accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards specified 
under Section 133 of the Act read with Companies (Accounting 
Standard) Rules 2021, as amended to the extent applicable, 
provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 
and the circulars and guidelines issued by Reserve Bank 
of India (‘RBI’) from time to time, as applicable to the Bank. 
The respective Board of Directors of the Company included 
in the Group are responsible for maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act and the RBI Guidelines, for safeguarding of the assets 
of the Group and for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; selection of the appropriate accounting 
software for ensuring compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations including those related to retention of audit logs 
and application of appropriate accounting policies; making 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the 
consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair 
view and are free from material misstatement, whether due 
to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of 
preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the 
Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the 
Management and Board of Directors included in the Group 
are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related 
to going concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to 
liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic 
alternative but to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the Company included 
in the Group are responsible for overseeing the financial 
reporting process of the Group.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an Auditor’s Report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated 
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
441
441
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control.
	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing 
our opinion on whether the Bank has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
	
Evaluate 
the 
appropriateness 
of 
accounting 
policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures in the consolidated 
financial statements made by the Management and 
Board of Directors.
	
Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management 
and Board of Director’s use of the going concern basis 
of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our Auditor’s Report to the related 
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, 
if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. 
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained 
up to the date of our Auditor’s Report. However, future 
events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to 
continue as a going concern.
	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the consolidated financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding 
the financial information of the entities or business 
activities within the Group to express an opinion on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. We are responsible 
for the direction, supervision and performance of 
the audit of the financial statements of such entities 
included in the Consolidated Financial Statements 
of which we are the independent auditors. For the 
other entities included in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, which have been audited by other auditors, 
such other auditors remain responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audits carried out 
by them. We remain solely responsible for our audit 
opinion. Our responsibilities in this regard are further 
described in para (a) of the section titled ‘Other Matters’ 
in this audit report.
	
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us along 
with the consideration of audit reports of the other 
auditors referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of the Other 
Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
We communicate with those charged with governance of the 
Bank and such other entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements of which we are the independent 
auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope 
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify 
during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of the current year and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, 
we determine that a matter should not be communicated in 
our report because the adverse consequences of doing so 
would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest 
benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
a)	
The Financial Statements of YES Securities (India) 
Limited, 
included 
in 
the 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements, reflects Group’s share of total assets 
of ` 12,718.5 million as at March 31, 2025, Group’s 
share of total revenue of ` 3,416.9 million and Group’s 
share of total net profit after tax of ` 407.4 million and 
net cash inflow of ` 996.1 million for the year ended 
March 31, 2025 as considered in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. This financial statements have 
been audited by its independent auditor. The independent 
auditor’s report on financial statements of this entity has 
been furnished to us and our opinion on the Statement, 
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
442
YES BANK LIMITED
in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures 
included in respect of this entity, is based solely on the 
report of such auditor and the procedures performed by 
us are as stated in paragraph above.
b)	
The Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended March 31, 2024 have been audited by one of 
the predecessor auditors Chokshi & Chokshi LLP and 
continuing joint statutory auditor G. M. Kapadia & Co., 
whose report dated April 27, 2024, had expressed an 
unmodified opinion. The above report has been furnished 
to us by the management and which has been relied upon 
by us for the purpose of our audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
	
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements is 
not modified in respect of above matters.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
1)	
The consolidated balance sheet and the consolidated 
profit and loss account have been drawn up in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 29 of the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and Section 133 of the Act 
and relevant rules issued thereunder.
2)	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our 
audit and on the consideration of report of the other 
auditor on separate financial statements and the 
other financial information of such subsidiary as were 
audited by other auditor, as noted in the ‘Other Matters’ 
paragraph, we report, to the extent applicable, that:
	
(a)	
we have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements;
	
(b)	
in our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid 
Consolidated Financial Statements have been 
kept by the Bank so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books and the report of 
the other auditor;
	
(c)	
the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated 
profit and loss account, and the consolidated cash 
flow statement dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the relevant books of account 
maintained for the purpose of preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements;
	
(d)	
in our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements comply with the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act, read with 
Companies (Accounting Standard) Rules, 2021, as 
amended, to the extent they are not inconsistent 
with the accounting policies prescribed by RBI;
	
(e)	
on the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors of the Bank as on March 31, 
2025, taken on record by the Board of Directors of 
the Bank and the report of the statutory auditor of 
its subsidiary company, none of the directors of the 
Group is disqualified as on March 31, 2025, from 
being appointed as a director in terms of Section 
164 (2) of the Act; and
	
(f)	
with respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements of the Group and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
report in ‘Annexure A’.
3.	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended 
in our opinion and to the best of our knowledge and 
belief and according to the information and explanations 
given to us and based on the consideration of the report 
of the other auditor on separate financial statements of 
the subsidiary as noted in the ‘Other Matters’ paragraph:
	
(a)	
the consolidated financial statements disclose 
the impact of pending litigations as at March 31, 
2025 on the consolidated financial position of the 
Group - Refer Note No. 17.6.18 and 17.6.21 to the 
consolidated financial statements;
	
(b)	
provision has been made in the consolidated 
financial statements, as required under the 
applicable law or accounting standards, for material 
foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts 
including derivative contracts - Refer Note No. 
17.6.15 to the consolidated financial statements;
	
(c)	
there has been no delay in transferring amounts, 
required to be transferred, to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund by the Holding Company and 
its subsidiary company incorporated in India during 
the year ended March 31, 2025 - Refer Note No. 
17.6.19 to the consolidated financial statements.
443
443
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
(d)	
(i)	
The management of the Bank and its respective 
subsidiary have represented that, to the best 
of their knowledge and belief, other than as 
disclosed in the notes to accounts, (Refer Note 
No. 17.6.20) no funds have been advanced 
or loaned or invested (either from borrowed 
funds or share premium or any other sources 
or kind of funds) by the Bank or its subsidiary 
company to or in any other person(s) 
or 
entity(ies), 
including 
foreign 
entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly 
or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Bank or its subsidiary 
companies (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
(ii)	
The management of the Bank and its 
respective subsidiary have represented that, 
to the best of their knowledge and belief, other 
than as disclosed in the notes to accounts 
(Refer Note No. 17.6.20) no funds have been 
received by the Bank or its subsidiary company 
from any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or 
otherwise, the Bank or its subsidiary company 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries,; and
	
	
(iii)	 Based on such audit procedures that were 
considered reasonable and appropriate in 
the circumstances, nothing has come to our 
notice that has caused us to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) 
above contain any material misstatement.
	
(e)	
No dividend has been declared or paid during the 
year by the Bank and its subsidiary.
	
(f)	
Based on our examination which included test 
checks and that performed by the auditor of the 
subsidiary whose financial statements have been 
audited under the Act, the Holding Company (the 
Bank), its subsidiary company incorporated in India 
have used accounting software for maintaining 
their respective books of account for the year 
ended March 31, 2025 which has a feature of 
recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the 
same has operated throughout the year for all 
relevant transactions recorded in the software. 
Further, during the course of audit, we and other 
auditor, whose report has been furnished to us 
by the Management of the Holding Company (the 
Bank), have not come across any instance of the 
audit trail feature being tampered with. Additionally, 
the audit trail been preserved by the bank as per the 
statutory requirements for record retention
4.	
With respect to the matter to be included in the Auditors’ 
Report under section 197(16) of the Act, in our opinion 
and according to the information and explanations given 
to us, requirements with respect to the matter to be 
included in the Auditor’s Report under section 197(16) 
are not applicable to banking companies.
	
Based on the reports of the statutory auditor of the 
subsidiary company which was not audited by us, 
the remuneration paid during the current year by the 
subsidiary company to its directors is in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 197 of the Act. The remuneration 
paid to any director by the subsidiary company is not in 
excess of the limit laid down under Section 197 of the Act.
For G.M. Kapadia & Co.
Chartered Accountants
(Registration No. 104767W)
For C N K & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Registration No. 101961W/ W100036)
Atul Shah
Partner
(Membership No. 039569)
UDIN: 25039569BMLNBS7828
Suresh Agaskar
Partner
(Membership No. 110321)
UDIN: 25110321BMKWGY9245
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
444
YES BANK LIMITED
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference 
to the aforesaid consolidated financial statements under 
Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
Opinion
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements of YES BANK Limited 
(“the Bank”) and its subsidiary company, which are companies 
incorporated in India as of March 31, 2025, in conjunction with 
our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Bank 
for the year ended on that date.
In our opinion, the Holding Company (the Bank) and its 
subsidiary company, which is incorporated in India, have, in 
all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements and 
such internal financial controls were operating effectively as 
at March 31, 2025, with reference to consolidated financial 
statements criteria established by the Bank and its subsidiary 
company considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial 
Controls
The respective company’s management and Board of 
Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining 
internal financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements criteria established by the Bank and 
respective companies considering the essential components 
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit 
of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
(‘the Guidance Note’) issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (‘the ICAI’). These responsibilities include 
the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to the respective Company’s policies, 
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection 
of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report
of even date on the consolidated financial statements of YES BANK Limited for the year ended 
March 31, 2025
(Referred to in paragraph 3(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ in the Independent Auditor’s 
Report of even date to the members of YES BANK Limited on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2025)
financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 
2013 (“the Act”).
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements of the Bank and its subsidiary company, which 
are companies incorporated in India, based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note 
and the Standards on Auditing (‘the Standards’), issued by the 
ICAI and deemed to be, prescribed under section 143(10) of 
the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial 
controls, both issued by the ICAI with reference to consolidated 
financial statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note 
require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan 
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether adequate internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements were established and 
maintained and whether such controls operated effectively in 
all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements and their 
operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements included 
obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements, assessing 
the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal 
control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected 
depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated 
financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the 
audit evidence obtained by the other auditor of the subsidiary 
company, in terms of his report referred to in the Other Matters 
paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for our audit opinion on the internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements of the 
Bank and its subsidiary companies, which are companies 
incorporated in India.
445
445
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference 
to Financial Statements
A Bank's internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated 
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. A Bank’s internal 
financial control with reference to consolidated financial 
statement includes those policies and procedures that
1)	
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the Bank;
2)	
provide 
reasonable 
assurance 
that 
transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of 
consolidated financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles, and that 
receipts and expenditures of the Bank are being made 
only in accordance with authorisations of management 
and directors of the Bank; and
3)	
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, 
For G.M. Kapadia & Co.
Chartered Accountants
(Registration No. 104767W)
For C N K & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Registration No. 101961W/ W100036)
Atul Shah
Partner
(Membership No. 039569)
UDIN: 25039569BMLNBS7828
Suresh Agaskar
Partner
(Membership No. 110321)
UDIN: 25110321BMKWGY9245
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025
or disposition of the Bank’s assets that could have a 
material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements, 
including the possibility of collusion or improper management 
override of controls, material misstatements due to error or 
fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements to future periods are subject 
to the risk that the internal financial control with reference to 
consolidated financial statement may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of 
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Other Matter
Our aforesaid reports under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the 
adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements 
in so far as it relates to one subsidiary company, is based on 
the corresponding report of the auditor of this company.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
446
YES BANK LIMITED
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as on March 31 2025
(` in thousands)
Schedule
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital
1 
 62,708,231 
 57,535,764 
Share Warrants Subscription Money
Note 17.6.2
 - 
9,483,918 
Reserves and surplus
2 
 415,615,930 
 354,532,174 
Minority Interest
2A
 32,541 
 - 
Deposits
3 
 2,844,200,266 
 2,662,295,315 
Borrowings
4 
 719,714,469 
 805,076,097 
Other liabilities and provisions
5 
 198,887,891 
 174,692,191 
TOTAL 
 4,241,159,328 
 4,063,615,459 
ASSETS
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India
6 
 152,601,325 
 181,392,387 
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice
7 
 133,071,245 
 11,792,105 
Investments
8 
 847,246,782 
 899,969,523 
Advances
9 
 2,461,201,623 
 2,277,990,414 
Fixed assets
10 
 30,784,049 
 28,657,370 
Other assets
11 
 616,254,304 
 663,813,660 
Goodwill on Consolidation
 - 
 - 
TOTAL
 4,241,159,328 
 4,063,615,459 
Contingent liabilities
12 
 11,902,387,409 
 7,969,577,549 
Bills for collection
 88,804,234 
153,682,865 
Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to Accounts forming part of financial 
statements
17 
The Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Balance Sheet has been prepared in conformity with Form A of the Third Schedule to the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
As per our report of even date attached.
For G. M. Kapadia & Co.
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 104767W
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
YES BANK Limited
CIN: L65190MH2003PLC143249
Atul Shah 
Partner
Membership No: 039569
Rama Subramaniam Gandhi 
Chairman
(DIN: 03341633)
Sanjay Khemani 
Director
(DIN: 00072812)
Prashant Kumar 
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN: 07562475)
For C N K & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 101961W/W100036
Suresh Agaskar
Partner 
Membership No: 110321
Rajan Pental
Executive Director 
(DIN: 08432870)
Manish Jain
Executive Director
(DIN: 10774800)
Niranjan Banodkar
Chief Financial Officer
Mumbai 
April 19, 2025
Sanjay Abhyankar
Company Secretary
447
447
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Profit & Loss Account
for the year ended March 31 2025
(` in thousands)
Schedule
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
I.
INCOME
Interest earned
13 
 309,188,147 
 276,058,622 
Other income
14 
61,568,079 
53,550,270 
TOTAL 
370,756,226 
329,608,892 
II.
EXPENDITURE
Interest expended
15 
219,983,652 
195,272,521 
Operating expenses
16 
107,677,102 
100,093,975 
Provisions and contingencies
Note 17.6.6
18,629,466 
21,390,381 
TOTAL
346,290,220 
316,756,877 
III.
PROFIT/(LOSS)
Share of earnings/loss in Associates
 - 
 - 
Consolidated Net profit/(loss) for the year before deducting Minorities' Interest 
24,466,006 
12,852,015 
Less: Minorities' Interest 
 1,080.17 
 - 
Consolidated profit/(loss) for the year attributable to the Group
24,464,926 
12,852,015 
Add: Brought forward consolidated profit/(loss) attributable to the group 
(91,126,358)
(100,937,568)
TOTAL
(66,661,432)
(88,085,553)
IV.
APPROPRIATIONS
Transfer to Statutory Reserve
 6,014,648 
 3,127,699 
Transfer to Capital Reserve
 421,004 
262,640 
Transfer to Investment Reserve
 - 
 431,921 
Transfer to Investment Fluctuation Reserve
 2,557,271 
 472,297 
Transfer to Revenue and other Reserves
 (19,388)
 (1,253,752)
Dividend paid for previous year
 - 
 - 
Tax on Dividend paid for previous year
 - 
 - 
Proposed Dividend
 - 
 - 
Tax (including surcharge and education cess) on Dividend
 - 
 - 
Balance carried over to balance sheet
 (75,634,967)
(91,126,358)
TOTAL
(66,661,432)
(88,085,553)
Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to Accounts forming part of financial 
statements
17 
Earnings per share
Note 17.6.11
  	
Basic (`) 
 0.79 
 0.45 
	
Diluted (`) 
 0.78 
 0.44 
(Face value of each equity share is ` 2/-)
The Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
The Profit and Loss Account has been prepared in conformity with Form B of the Third Schedule to the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
As per our report of even date attached.
For G. M. Kapadia & Co.
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 104767W
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
YES BANK Limited
CIN: L65190MH2003PLC143249
Atul Shah 
Partner
Membership No: 039569
Rama Subramaniam Gandhi 
Chairman
(DIN: 03341633)
Sanjay Khemani 
Director
(DIN: 00072812)
Prashant Kumar 
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN: 07562475)
For C N K & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 101961W/W100036
Suresh Agaskar
Partner 
Membership No: 110321
Rajan Pental
Executive Director 
(DIN: 08432870)
Manish Jain
Executive Director
(DIN: 10774800)
Niranjan Banodkar
Chief Financial Officer
Mumbai 
April 19, 2025
Sanjay Abhyankar
Company Secretary
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
448
YES BANK LIMITED
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended March 31, 2025
 (` in thousands)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Cash flow from/(used in) Operating Activities
Net profit before taxes
 32,239,413 
 15,376,881 
Adjustment for
ESOP Compensation Expense
 693,975 
 312,125 
Depreciation for the year
 4,933,874 
 5,455,502 
Amortization of premium on investments
 (2,937,130)
 4,105,944 
Provision for / revaluation of investments
 (3,852,247)
 351,771 
Provision for standard advances
 (1,790,309)
 (1,011,477)
Provision/write off of non performing advances
 33,781,166 
 27,642,686 
Other provisions
 1,233,459 
 942,849 
(Profit)/Loss on sale of land, building and other assets
 152,790 
 20,624 
(i)
 64,454,991 
 53,196,905 
Adjustments for :
Increase / (Decrease) in Deposits
 181,904,951 
 488,473,385 
Increase/(Decrease) in Other Liabilities
 16,998,588 
 (20,008,109)
(Increase)/Decrease in Investments
 (29,082,045)
 (22,243,378)
(Increase)/Decrease in Advances
 (216,992,375)
 (273,267,648)
(Increase)/Decrease in Other assets
 47,155,946 
 (125,933,989)
(ii)
 (14,935)
 47,020,261 
Payment of direct taxes
(iii)
 (576,070)
 (3,771,656)
Net cash generated from / (used in) operating activities (A)
(i+ii+iii)
 63,863,986 
 96,445,510 
Cash flow from/(used in) investing activities
Purchase of fixed assets
 (7,417,336)
 (9,806,555)
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets
 203,992 
 187,871 
Investment in equity shares of Asset Reconstruction Company
 - 
 (731,421)
(Increase) / Decrease in Held To Maturity (HTM) securities
 92,486,162 
 (113,959,464)
Net cash generated / (used in) from investing activities (B)
 85,272,818 
 (124,309,569)
Cash flow from/(used in) financing activities
Increase in Borrowings (gross)
 (85,361,628)
 30,336,258 
Tier I/II Debt repaid during the year
 - 
 (2,800,000)
Proceeds from issuance of Equity Shares (net of share issue expense)
 28,816,540 
 171,955 
Increase/ (decrease) in Minority Interest
 32,541 
 - 
Net cash generated from / (used in) financing activities (C)
 (56,512,547)
 27,708,213 
Effect of exchange fluctuation on translation reserve (D)
 (136,179)
 (219,751)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C+D)
 92,488,078 
 (375,597)
Cash and cash equivalents as at April 1st
 193,184,492 
 193,560,088 
Cash and cash equivalents as at March 31st
 285,672,570 
 193,184,492 
449
449
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended March 31, 2025
 (` in thousands)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Notes to the Cash flow statement:
Cash and cash equivalents includes the following
Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India
 152,601,325 
 181,392,387 
Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice
 133,071,245 
 11,792,105 
Cash and cash equivalents as at March 31st
 285,672,570 
 193,184,492 
As per our report of even date attached.
For G. M. Kapadia & Co.
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 104767W
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
YES BANK Limited
CIN: L65190MH2003PLC143249
Atul Shah 
Partner
Membership No: 039569
Rama Subramaniam Gandhi 
Chairman
(DIN: 03341633)
Sanjay Khemani 
Director
(DIN: 00072812)
Prashant Kumar 
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN: 07562475)
For C N K & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 101961W/W100036
Suresh Agaskar
Partner 
Membership No: 110321
Rajan Pental
Executive Director 
(DIN: 08432870)
Manish Jain
Executive Director
(DIN: 10774800)
Niranjan Banodkar
Chief Financial Officer
Mumbai 
April 19, 2025
Sanjay Abhyankar
Company Secretary
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Schedules
Schedules forming a part of Consolidated Balance Sheet
450
YES BANK LIMITED
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 1 - CAPITAL
Authorised Capital
40,000,000,000 equity shares of ` 2/- each
 80,000,000 
 80,000,000 
20,000,000 preference shares of ` 100/- each
 2,000,000 
 2,000,000 
Issued, subscribed and paid-up capital (Refer Sch 17.6.1)
31,354,115,322 equity shares of ` 2/- each
 62,708,231 
 57,535,764 
(March 31, 2024 : 28,767,882,106 equity shares of ` 2/- each) 
TOTAL 
 62,708,231 
 57,535,764 
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 2 - RESERVES AND SURPLUS
I
Statutory Reserves
Opening balance
 56,520,852 
 53,393,153 
Additions during the year
 6,014,648 
 3,127,699 
Deductions during the year
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 62,535,500 
 56,520,852 
II
Share Premium
Opening balance
 366,612,150 
 366,438,573 
Additions during the year (Refer Sch 17.6.1)
 33,198,830 
 173,577 
Deductions during the year 
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 399,810,980 
 366,612,150 
III
Capital Reserve
Opening balance
 17,562,457 
 17,299,817 
Additions during the year
 421,004 
 262,640 
Deductions during the year
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 17,983,461 
 17,562,457 
IV
Capital Reserve on Consolidation
Opening balance
 164,816 
 164,816 
Additions during the year
 - 
 - 
Deductions during the year
 5,748 
 - 
Closing balance
 159,068 
 164,816 
V
Investment Reserve
Opening balance
 1,016,837 
 584,916 
Additions during the year
 - 
 431,921 
Deductions during the year
 1,016,837 
 - 
Closing balance
 - 
 1,016,837 
VI
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
Opening balance
 (1,523,213)
 (1,303,463)
Additions during the year
 (136,179)
 (219,751)
Deductions during the year
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 (1,659,392)
 (1,523,213)
Schedules
Schedules forming a part of Consolidated Balance Sheet
451
451
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
VII
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
Opening balance
 - 
 - 
Additions during the year
 - 
 - 
Deductions during the year
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 - 
 - 
VIII
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
Opening balance
 4,718,012 
 4,245,715 
Additions during the year 
 2,557,270 
 472,297 
Deductions during the year 
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 7,275,282 
 4,718,012 
IX
Employee Stock Options Reserve
Opening balance
 586,621 
 302,331 
Additions during the year (Refer Sch 17.6.4)
 697,387 
 312,565 
Deductions during the year 
 87,613 
 28,275 
Closing balance
 1,196,395 
 586,621 
X
AFS Reserve
Opening balance
 - 
 - 
Additions during the year (Refer Sch 17.6.5)
 1,664,626 
 - 
Deductions during the year 
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 1,664,626 
 - 
XI
General Reserves
Opening balance
 - 
 - 
Additions during the year (Refer Sch 17.6.5)
 2,284,977 
 - 
Deductions during the year 
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 2,284,977 
 - 
XII
Balance in Profit and Loss Account
 (75,634,967)
 (91,126,358)
TOTAL
 415,615,930  
 354,532,174 
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 2A - MINORITY INTEREST
Minority interest at the date on which the parent-subsidiary relationship came into existence
 32,541 
 - 
Subsequent increase/ decrease
 - 
 - 
Minority interest on the date of balance sheet
 32,541 
 - 
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Schedules
Schedules forming a part of Consolidated Balance Sheet
452
YES BANK LIMITED
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 3 - DEPOSITS
A.
I.
Demand Deposits
i)
From Banks
 24,283,508 
 25,236,766 
ii)
From others
 408,720,211 
 388,039,226 
II.
Savings Bank Deposit
 541,756,215 
 409,729,868 
III.
Term Deposits
i)
From banks
 67,786,690 
 81,248,319 
ii)
From others (incl. CD's issued)
 1,801,653,642 
 1,758,041,136 
TOTAL 
 2,844,200,266 
 2,662,295,315 
B.
I.
Deposits of branches in India
 2,800,416,800 
 2,642,206,822 
II.
Deposits of branches outside India
 43,783,466 
 20,088,493 
TOTAL 
 2,844,200,266 
 2,662,295,315 
Includes lien marked deposits amounting to ` 529,148,240 thousands (March 31, 2024: ` 176,243,472 thousands)
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 4 - BORROWINGS
I.
Borrowing in India
i)
Reserve Bank of India1
 11,040,000 
 16,450,000 
ii)
Other banks
 62,802,185 
 45,577,944 
iii)
Other institutions and agencies 1 & 2
 413,705,192 
 481,774,845 
iv)
Innovative Perpetual Debt Instruments (IPDI)
 - 
 - 
v)
Tier II Borrowings
 139,412,000 
 139,412,000 
TOTAL (A)
 626,959,377 
 683,214,789 
II.
Borrowings outside India
i)
Borrowings outside India
 92,755,092 
 121,861,308 
ii)
Innovative Perpetual Debt Instruments (IPDI)
 - 
 - 
iii)
Tier II Borrowings
 - 
 - 
TOTAL (B)
 92,755,092 
 121,861,308 
TOTAL (A+B)
 719,714,469 
 805,076,097 
(1) 	
Secured borrowings are ` 28,411,177 thousands (March 31, 2024: ` 22,279,505 thousands).
(2) 	
Including ` 369,649,660 thousands of refinance borrowing (March 31, 2024: `  438,078,040 thousands) ` 3,150,000 thousands (March 31 
2024: ` 13,150,000 thousands) of Green Infrastructure Bonds raised to fund 'Green Projects' and ` 21,350,000 thousands (March 31, 2024: 
` 21,350,000 thousands) of Long Term Infrastructure Bonds raised to finance affordable housing and infrastructure projects.
Schedules
Schedules forming a part of Consolidated Balance Sheet
453
453
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 5 - OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS
I.
Bills payable
 3,587,041 
 4,986,264 
II.
Inter-office adjustments (net)
 - 
 - 
III.
Interest accrued
 23,020,503 
 26,944,469 
IV.
Others (including provisions)
-	
Provision for standard advances
 14,943,030 
 16,733,338 
-	
Country risk exposures
 127,878 
 - 
-	
Others*
 157,209,439 
 126,028,120 
-	
Income Tax Provision
 - 
 - 
TOTAL
 198,887,891 
 174,692,191 
*Others includes Marked to Market adjustments on derivatives ` 81,766,886 thousands (March 31, 2024: ` 53,897,552 thousands)
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 6 - CASH AND BALANCES WITH RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
I.
Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes)
 10,449,741 
 9,620,705 
II.
Balances with Reserve Bank of India
-	
In current account
 142,151,584 
 151,681,682 
- 	
In other account*
 - 
 20,090,000 
TOTAL
 152,601,325 
 181,392,387 
(` in thousands)
 As on 
 As on 
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 7 - BALANCES WITH BANKS, MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT NOTICE
I.
In India
Balances with banks-
i) 
In current accounts
 5,708,800 
 2,661,601 
ii)
In other deposit accounts
 5,274,600 
 4,969,710 
Money at call and short notice
i) 
with Banks
 550,000 
 - 
ii)
with other institutions
 58,412,741 
 - 
TOTAL (I)
 69,946,140 
 7,631,311 
II.
Outside India
i)
In current account
 34,330,287 
 617,749 
ii)
In other deposit account
 - 
 - 
iii)
Money at call and short notice
 28,794,818 
 3,543,045 
TOTAL (II)
 63,125,105 
 4,160,794 
TOTAL (I+II)
 133,071,245 
 11,792,105 
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Schedules
Schedules forming a part of Consolidated Balance Sheet
454
YES BANK LIMITED
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 8 - INVESTMENTS (Net of provisions)
A.
Investments in India
i)
Government Securities*
 753,836,093 
 806,206,308 
ii)
Other approved securities
 - 
 - 
iii)
Shares
 2,467,619 
 1,283,620 
iv)
Debentures and bonds
 56,018,667 
 59,997,095 
v)
Associates
 - 
 - 
vi)
Others (Commercial Papers, Certificate of Deposits, Security Receipts, Pass through 
certificates, Mutual Funds, Venture Capital Funds etc.)
 22,613,402 
 24,669,495 
TOTAL (I)
 834,935,781 
 892,156,518 
B.
Investments outside India
i)
Government Securities
 12,281,846 
 7,806,343 
ii)
Shares
 29,155 
 6,662 
iii)
Debentures and bonds
 - 
 - 
iv)
Others (MFs)
 - 
 - 
TOTAL (II)
 12,311,001 
 7,813,005 
TOTAL (I+II)
 847,246,782 
 899,969,523 
C.
Investments in India
(i) 	
Gross value of investments
 877,724,229 
 939,011,651 
(ii) 	
Aggregate of provisions for depreciation
 42,788,448 
 46,855,132 
(iii) 	
Net investment TOTAL (I)
 834,935,781 
 892,156,518 
D. 
Investments outside India
(i) 	
Gross value of investments
 12,311,001 
 7,813,005 
(ii) 	
Aggregate of provisions for depreciation
 - 
 - 
(iii) 	
Net investment TOTAL (II)
 12,311,001 
 7,813,005 
TOTAL (I+II)
 847,246,782 
 899,969,523 
* Includes securities of face value ` 31,481,000 thousands (March 31, 2024: 48,303,545 thousands) pledged for clearing facility and 
margin requirements.
Schedules
Schedules forming a part of Consolidated Balance Sheet
455
455
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 9 - ADVANCES (Net of provisions)
A.
i)
Bills purchased and discounted
 54,487,428 
 36,531,550 
ii)
Cash credit, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand (1)
 989,633,445 
 732,946,234 
iii)
Term loans
 1,417,080,750 
 1,508,512,630 
TOTAL
 2,461,201,623 
 2,277,990,414 
B.
i)
Secured by tangible assets (1) (includes advances secured by fixed deposits and book 
debt)
 1,877,630,239 
 1,754,086,196 
ii)
Covered by Bank/Government guarantees
 26,098,672 
 20,260,291 
iii)
Unsecured (2)(3)
 557,472,712 
 503,643,927 
TOTAL
 2,461,201,623 
 2,277,990,414 
(1) 	
Interbank Reverse Repo having original tenors more than 14 days classified as Advances are Nil.
(2) 	
Includes at March 31, 2025 advances of   ` 40,890,416  thousands (March 31, 2024:   ` 49,662,585 thousands) for which security 
documentation is either being obtained or being registered.
(3) 	
Includes at March 31, 2025 advances amounting to ` 719,862 thousands (March 31, 2024 : ` 2,763,700 thousand) has been secured by 
intangible securities such as charge over the rights, licenses, authority, etc.
C.
I.
Advances in India
i)
Priority sectors 
 1,006,447,193 
 963,870,601 
ii)
Public sector
 - 
 - 
iii)
Banks (1)
 11,884,669 
 5,879,698 
iv)
Others
 1,377,262,711 
 1,248,636,876 
TOTAL (I)
 2,395,594,573 
 2,218,387,175 
II.
Advances outside India
  
i)
Due from Banks
 2,559,581 
 207,781 
ii)
Due from Others
 63,047,469 
 59,395,458 
(a) 	
Bills purchased and discounted
 - 
 - 
(b) 	
Syndicated loans
 17,356,160 
 19,951,099 
(c) 	
Others
 45,691,309 
 39,444,359 
TOTAL (II)
 65,607,050 
 59,603,239 
TOTAL (I+II)
 2,461,201,623 
 2,277,990,414 
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Schedules
Schedules forming a part of Consolidated Balance Sheet
456
YES BANK LIMITED
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 10 - FIXED ASSETS
I.
Premises 
At cost as on March 31st of preceding year
 12,102,530 
 12,102,530 
Additions during the year
 - 
 - 
Deductions during the year
 - 
 - 
Accumulated depreciation to date
 (699,572)
 (528,248)
IA.
Premises under construction
 - 
 - 
TOTAL (I)
 11,402,958 
 11,574,282 
II.
Other Fixed Assets (including furniture and fixtures and software)
At cost as on March 31st of preceding year
 41,152,238 
 32,653,053 
Additions during the year
 8,903,548 
 9,197,916 
Deductions during the year
 (1,501,109)
 (698,731)
Accumulated depreciation to date
 (31,234,307)
 (27,635,473)
IIA.
Leased Assets
At cost as on March 31st of preceding year
 - 
 - 
Additions during the year
 - 
 - 
Deductions during the year
 - 
 - 
Accumulated depreciation to date
 - 
 - 
TOTAL (II)
 17,320,370 
 13,516,765 
TOTAL (I+II)
 28,723,328 
 25,091,047 
III.
Capital work-in-progress(net of provision)
 2,060,721 
 3,566,323 
TOTAL
 30,784,049 
 28,657,370 
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 11 - OTHER ASSETS
I.
Interest Accrued
 28,421,963 
 28,057,561 
II.
Advance tax and tax deducted at source (net of provision)
 16,488,953 
 12,003,576 
III.
Deferred tax asset (Refer Sch 17.6.13)
 76,568,208 
 85,630,915 
IV.
Stationery and stamps 
 2,227 
 2,115 
V.
Non-Banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims
 53,000 
 353,000 
VI.
Others*
 494,719,953 
 537,766,493 
TOTAL
 616,254,304 
 663,813,660 
*1. 	
Includes deposits placed with NABARD/SIDBI/NHB, etc. of ` 370,170,275 thousands (March 31, 2024: ` 440,872,509 thousands) on 
account of shortfall in priority sector targets.
2. 	
Includes Marked to Market adjustments on derivatives of ` 76,632,548 thousands (March 31, 2024: ` 47,752,918 thousands)
Schedules
Schedules forming a part of Consolidated Balance Sheet
457
457
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in thousands)
 As on 
March 31, 2025
 As on 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 12 - CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
I.
Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts 
 3,324,473 
 3,655,281 
II.
Liability for partly paid investments
 - 
 - 
III.
Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts 
 6,191,074,608 
 3,835,376,775 
IV.
Liability on account of outstanding derivative contracts
 - 
 - 
(a) 	
Single currency Interest Rate Swap
 3,753,560,416 
 2,614,541,640 
(b) 	
Others
 664,462,228 
 336,619,315 
V.
Guarantees given on behalf on constituents
 - 
 - 
(a) 	
In India
 652,382,285 
 589,956,581 
(b) 	
Outside India
 1,030,330 
 - 
VI.
Acceptances, endorsement and other obligations
 242,528,445 
 210,148,657 
VII.
Other items for which the bank is contingently liable
 - 
 - 
(a)	
Purchase of securities pending settlement
 8,678,815 
 958,430 
(b)	
Capital commitment
 2,992,858 
 4,037,417 
(c)	
Amount deposited with RBI under Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEAF)
 459,215 
 310,144 
(d)	
Foreign exchange contracts (Tom & Spot)
 359,088,329 
 363,535,042 
(e)	
Custody
 13,969,354 
 2,509,542 
(f)	
Bills Rediscounting
 - 
 - 
(g)	
Letter of Undertaking
 8,836,053 
 7,928,725 
(h)	
When Issued (‘WI’) securities
 - 
 - 
TOTAL
 11,902,387,409 
 7,969,577,549 
Contingent Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts and single currency interest rate swap as on March 31, 2025 includes 
notional amount of ` 5,664,254,966 thousands and ` 2,036,677,633 thousands (Mar 31, 2024: ` 3,697,440,095 thousands and ` 1,517,307,402 
thousands) guaranteed by CCIL representing 86.48% and 54.26% (Mar 31, 2024: 88.06% and 58.03%) of total outstanding forward exchange 
contracts and single currency interest rate swaps respectively.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Schedules
Schedules forming a part of Consolidated Balance Sheet
458
YES BANK LIMITED
(` in thousands)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 13 - INTEREST EARNED
I.
Interest/discount on advances/bills
 232,952,248 
 210,832,081 
II.
Income on investments (including dividend)
 56,944,896 
 49,582,584 
III.
Interest on balances with Reserve Bank of India and other inter-bank funds
 3,930,859 
 4,583,982 
IV.
Others
 15,360,144 
 11,059,975 
TOTAL
 309,188,147 
 276,058,622 
(` in thousands)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 14 - OTHER INCOME
I.
Commission, exchange and brokerage
 37,132,129 
 30,742,601 
II.
Profit/(Loss) on the sale of investments (net)
 4,111,268 
 2,270,961 
III.
Profit/(Loss) on the revaluation of investments (net)
 325,230 
 1,043,288 
IV.
Profit/(Loss) on sale of land, building and other assets
 (152,790)
 (20,624)
V.
Profit/(Loss) on exchange transactions (net)
 6,567,450 
 6,441,110 
VI.
Income earned by way of dividends
 - 
 - 
VII.
Miscellaneous income
 13,584,792 
 13,072,934 
TOTAL
 61,568,079 
 53,550,270 
(` in thousands)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 15 - INTEREST EXPENDED
 I. 
Interest on deposits
 158,388,359 
 135,623,916 
 II. 
Interest on Reserve Bank of India/inter-bank borrowings/ Tier I and Tier II debt instruments
 59,384,936 
 57,977,557 
 III. 
Others
 2,210,357 
 1,671,048 
TOTAL
 219,983,652 
195,272,521 
(` in thousands)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
SCHEDULE 16 - OPERATING EXPENSES
I.
Payments to and provisions for employees
 41,416,698 
 38,873,176 
II.
Rent, taxes and lighting
 5,948,560 
 5,102,339 
III.
Printing and stationery
 700,553 
 679,750 
IV.
Advertisement and publicity
 525,228 
 580,612 
V.
Depreciation on Group's property
 4,933,874 
 5,455,502 
VI.
Directors' fees, allowances and expenses
 65,241 
 46,589 
VII.
Auditors' fees and expenses
 44,013 
 49,467 
VIII.
Law charges 
 99,625 
 142,282 
IX.
Postage, telegrams, telephones, etc.
 701,105 
 653,134 
X.
Repairs and maintenance
 629,161 
 595,617 
XI.
Insurance
 4,176,994 
 3,450,594 
XII.
Other expenditure
 48,436,050 
 44,464,913 
TOTAL
 107,677,102 
100,093,975 
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
459
459
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.	 Significant accounting policies and notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements for the year 
ended March 31, 2025
17.1	Background
YES BANK Limited ('the Bank’) is a publicly held bank, together with its subsidiary (collectively, ‘the Group’), are engaged in providing 
a wide range of banking and financial services. YES BANK Limited is a banking company governed by the Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949. The Bank was incorporated as a limited company under the Companies Act, 1956 on November 21, 2003. The Bank 
received the licence to commence banking operations from the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) on May 24, 2004. Further, the Bank 
was included to the Second Schedule of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 with effect from August 21, 2004. Also, the Bank has 
a branch at International Financial Services Centre (‘IFSC’) at GIFT City, Gujarat (‘IBU’). The Bank classifies transactions undertaken 
by IBU as overseas operation.
YES Securities (India) Limited (‘YSIL’) was incorporated on March 14, 2013, as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Bank. YSIL is 
registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (‘SEBI’) as a securities broker since July 8, 2013, Category I Merchant 
Banker w.e.f. September 3, 2015, Research Analyst w.e.f. November 30, 2015 and Investment Adviser w.e.f. March 20, 2017. 
YSIL is member of the National Stock Exchange (‘NSE’) since May 2, 2013, the Bombay Stock Exchange (‘BSE’) since June 11, 2013, 
Multi Commodity Exchange (‘MCX’) since February 5, 2019 and National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange Limited (‘NCDEX’) 
since February 6, 2020. YSIL offers, inter alia, trading / investment in equity, merchant banking and other financial products along 
with various value added services.
17.2	Principles of Consolidation
The Bank consolidates its subsidiary in accordance with Accounting Standard (‘AS’) 21, Consolidated Financial Statements notified 
under section 133 of the Companies Act 2013, read together with Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 issued by the 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs to the extent applicable on a line-by-line basis by adding together the like items of assets, liabilities, 
income and expenditure.
17.3	Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with requirements prescribed under the Third Schedule 
(Form A and Form B) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The accounting and reporting policies of the Group used in the 
preparation of the consolidated financial statements conform to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (Indian GAAP), 
the guidelines and clarifications issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) from time to time, the accounting standards notified 
under section 133 of the Companies Act 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 to the extent applicable and practices generally prevalent in the banking industry in India. 
The Group follows the accrual method of accounting and the historical cost convention, unless otherwise stated by RBI guidelines. 
In case the accounting policies followed by subsidiary are different from those followed by the Bank, the same is being disclosed 
in the respective accounting policy.
17.4	Use of estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires the management of the Group to make estimates and assumptions 
that are considered while reporting amounts of assets and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) as of the date of the 
consolidated financial statements and income and expenses during the reporting period. Management believes that the estimates 
used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual results could differ from 
these estimates. The impact of any revision in these estimates is recognised prospectively from the period of change.
17.5	Significant accounting policies
17.5.1 Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be 
reliably measured.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
460
YES BANK LIMITED
	
Interest income is recognised in the profit and loss account on accrual basis, except in the case of non-performing assets. 
Interest on non-performing assets is recognised as per the prudential norms of the RBI. Penal Charges for covenant breach 
is recognised upon certainty of its realisation.
	
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
	
Commission on Guarantees and Letters of Credit (‘LC’) issued by the Bank is recognised as income over the period of the 
Guarantee and LC respectively.
	
Income on non-coupon bearing discounted instruments is recognised over the tenure of the instrument on a straight-line 
basis. In case of coupon bearing discounted instruments, discount income is recognised over the tenor of the instrument on 
a straight line basis.
	
In case of Bonds and Pass-Through Certificates (PTC), premium on redemption, if any, is amortised over the tenure of the 
instrument on a straight line basis.
	
Revenue from financial advisory services is recognised in line with milestones achieved as per terms of agreement with 
clients which is reflective of services rendered.
	
Facility fees and loan processing fees are recognised when due and realisable.
	
Other fees and commission are accounted for as and when they became due and realisable.
	
Gain / loss on sell down of loans is recognised in line with the extant RBI guidelines.
	
Appropriations of recoveries in standard advances (except for credit cards, which is based on agreement) are made 
in below order:
	
a)	
Penal charges (on financial overdue)
	
b)	
Interest
	
c)	
Principal
	
d)	
Charges, Costs, Commission etc.
	
Appropriations of recoveries in NPAs (except for credit cards, which is based on agreement) are made in below order:
	
a)	
Principal
	
b)	
Interest
	
c)	
Penal charges (on financial charges)
	
d)	
Penal charges (on non-financial overdue), Costs, Commission etc.
	
Brokerage income is recognised as per contracted rate on execution of transaction on behalf of the customers on 
the trade date.
	
Fee income from Investment banking / Merchant banking services are recognised based on completion of milestone as per 
the engagement letter. Further Fee income in relation to public issues/ other securities is recognised based on mobilization 
and intimation received from clients / intermediaries.
	
Fee for subscription based services are recognised as earned on a pro rata basis over the term of the plan.
17.5.2 Investments
Classification and valuation of the Bank’s investments are carried out in accordance with RBI Circular DOR.
MRG.36/21.04.141/2023-24 dated September 12, 2023, as amended.
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
461
461
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Accounting and Classification
The Bank follows settlement date accounting for Investments. In compliance with RBI guidelines, all investments, are categorised 
as “Fair Value Through Profit & Loss” (‘FVTPL’), “Available for Sale” (‘AFS’) or “Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’) and under sub-category 
of FVTPL as “Held for Trading” (‘HFT’) at the time of its purchase. All investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 
are categorised under a separate category as “Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures” (‘Subsidiaries and/
or joint ventures’). For the purpose of disclosure in the balance sheet, investments are classified as disclosed in Schedule 8 
(‘Investments’) under six groups (a) government securities (b) other approved securities (c) shares (d) debentures and bonds (e) 
subsidiaries and/or joint ventures and (f) others.
YSIL classifies investments into long term investments and current investments. Investments which are intended to be held for 
more than one year are classified as long-term investments and investments which are intended to be held for less than one year 
are classified as current investments. Long-term Investments are stated at cost after deducting provision made, if any, for other 
than temporary diminution in the value. Current Investments are stated at lower of cost and market/ fair value.
Purchase and sale transactions in securities are accounted on settlement date.
a)	
Initial Recognition (Cost of acquisition)
	
All investments are measured at fair value on initial recognition, unless facts and circumstances suggest that the fair value 
is materially different from the acquisition cost, the acquisition cost is the fair value of the assets. In case the fair value of 
investment is different from cost of acquisition, Day 1 Gain/Loss is recognised in Profit and Loss Account.
	
Day 1 Loss arising from Level 3 investments is recognised immediately. Any Day 1 gains arising from Level 3 investments 
is deferred. In case of debt instruments, the Day 1 gain is amortised on a straight-line basis up to the maturity date (or 
earliest call date for perpetual instruments), while for unquoted equity instruments, the gain is set aside as a liability until 
the security is listed or derecognised.
	
Cost such as brokerage pertaining to investments, paid at the time of acquisition and broken period interest are charged to 
the profit and loss account as per the RBI guidelines.
b)	
Basis of classification
	
Investments are classified as per guidance provided in the RBI Master Direction - Classification, Valuation and Operation of 
Investment Portfolio of Commercial Banks Directions, 2023 Circular DOR.MRG.36/21.04.141/2023-24 dated September 12, 
2023. Securities that meets SPPI criterion and the Bank intends to hold them till maturity are classified under the HTM 
category. Securities meets SPPI criterion and the Bank intends to held for sale are classified under AFS category. All other 
investments excluding investments in subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures, which are not classified in the above 
categories are classified under the FVTPL (non-HFT) residual category. Held for Trading (HFT) is a separate investment 
subcategory within FVTPL. Investment in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures are classified under a separate 
category as “Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures”.
c)	
Reclassification between categories
	
Reclassification of investments from one category to the other, if done, is in accordance with RBI guidelines. As per RBI 
guidelines, reclassification between category requires Board of Directors prior approval. Further, reclassification shall also 
require the prior approval of the Department of Supervision (DoS), RBI.
	
When investments reclassified between categories, the accounting treatment shall be in accordance with chapter – VI of RBI 
Circular DOR.MRG.36/21.04.141/2023-24 dated September 12, 2023.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
462
YES BANK LIMITED
d)	
Valuation (Subsequent Measurement)
	
Investments categorised under AFS and FVTPL categories is fair valued on periodical basis as per relevant RBI guidelines. 
The valuation gains and losses across all performing investments irrespective of classification held under AFS or FVTPL is 
aggregated. The net appreciation or depreciation is directly credited or debited to AFS reserve or Profit & Loss Account of 
investments under AFS or FVTPL category respectively.
	
Investments received in lieu of restructured advances scheme are valued in accordance with RBI guidelines. Any diminution 
in value on these investments is provided for and is not used to set off against appreciation in respect of other performing 
securities in that category. Depreciation on equity shares acquired and held by the Bank under restructuring scheme is 
provided as per RBI guidelines.
	
Investments classified under the HTM category are carried at cost and any premium or discount over the face value, paid on 
acquisition, is amortised on a straight -line basis over the remaining period to maturity. Where in the opinion of management, 
a diminution, other than temporary in the value of investments classified under HTM has taken place, suitable provisions are 
made. Profit/loss on sale of investments in the ‘Held to Maturity’ category is recognised in the profit and loss account and 
profit is thereafter appropriated (net of applicable taxes and statutory reserve requirements) to Capital Reserve.
	
Investments in subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures as classified under a separate category “Investments in 
Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures” is held at acquisition cost. The Bank assesses these investments for impairment 
on intervals as mentioned in RBI circular. Treasury Bills, Commercial Paper and Certificates of deposit being discounted 
instruments, are valued at carrying cost.
	
PTCs purchased for priority sector lending requirements are valued in accordance with RBI guidelines.
	
The market/ fair value applied for the purpose of periodical valuation of quoted investments included in the AFS and FVTPL 
(including HFT) categories is the market price of the scrip as available from the trades/ quotes on the recognised stock 
exchanges and for Subsidiary General Ledger (‘SGL’) account transactions, the prices as periodically declared by Financial 
Benchmarks India Pvt. Ltd. (FBIL).
	
The market/ fair value of unquoted government securities included in the AFS and FVTPL (including HFT) category is 
determined as per the prices published by FBIL. Further, in the case of unquoted bonds, debentures, PTCs (other than priority 
sector) and preference shares, valuation is carried out by applying an appropriate mark-up (reflecting associated credit risk) 
over the Yield to Maturity (‘YTM’) rates of government securities. Such mark up and YTM rates applied are as per the relevant 
rates published by FIMMDA/FBIL.
	
The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central Government dated securities in accordance with RBI guidelines. 
The short position is reflected as the amount received on sale which is categorised under HFT category and is netted in the 
Investment schedule. The short position is marked to market and loss, if any, is charged to the Profit and Loss account while 
gain, if any, is ignored. Profit / Loss on settlement of the short position is recognised in the Profit and Loss account.
	
Investments in unquoted Alternative Investment Funds (AIF)/Venture Capital Funds (VCF) are valued at Net Asset Value 
(NAV) disclosed by the AIF/VCF. Where AIF/VCF fails to carry out and disclose the valuation of an independent valuer as per 
the frequency mandated by SEBI, the value of its units shall be treated as ` 1 per VCF/AIF.
	
In case AIF/VCF is not registered under SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulations, 2012 (SEBI AIF regulations) and the 
latest disclosed valuation of its investment precedes the date of valuation by more than 18 months the value of units shall 
be treated as ` 1 per VCF/AIF. In case AIF is registered under SEBI AIF regulations, Category I and Category II Alternative 
Investment Funds, undertakes valuation at least once in every six months, by an independent valuer appointed by the 
Alternative Investment Fund:
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
463
463
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
Quoted equity shares are valued at their closing price on a recognised stock exchange. Unquoted equity shares are valued at 
the break-up value if the latest balance sheet is available, else, at ` 1 per company, as per relevant RBI guidelines.
	
For stressed loans transferred to Asset Reconstruction Company (ARC) where the consideration is lower than the net book 
value (NBV) at the time of transfer, the shortfall is debited to the Profit and Loss Account and spread equally over the 
financial year. The realised profit, where the cash recovery exceeds the NBV of the stressed loans, the same is credited 
to Profit and Loss Account. For stressed loans where the consideration received was higher than the NBV at the time of 
transfer but the cash recovery is lower than the NBV, such excess amount is not reversed in the Profit and Loss Account and 
the Bank continues to carry forward the same as provision against the Security Receipts (SRs). In effect, the value of SRs 
is reflected in a manner that the value of SRs is not higher than the NBV of the loans transferred to ARC. The provisioning 
requirements is as per the extant RBI guidelines applied on each reporting date, taking into account the principle that there 
should be no provisioning arbitrage between the provisioning on security receipts vis-à-vis the provisioning requirements 
on the underlying stressed loans, had it stayed in the books. SRs/ PTCs which are not redeemed as at the end of resolution 
period are fully provided in books of accounts.
	
Investments in quoted Mutual Fund (MF) Units are valued at the latest repurchase price/NAV declared by the MF. 
Investments in un-quoted MF Units are valued on the basis of the latest re-purchase price declared by the MF in respect of 
each particular Scheme.
	
Investment in listed instruments of Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT)/Infrastructure Investment Trust (INVIT) is valued 
at closing price on a recognised stock exchange with the higher volumes. In case the instruments were not traded on any 
stock exchange within 15 days prior to date of valuation, valuation is done based on the latest NAV (not older than 1 year) 
submitted by the valuer.
	
Sovereign foreign currency bonds are valued using Composite Bloomberg Bond Trader (CBBT) price or Bloomberg Valuation 
Service (BVAL) price or on Treasury curve in the chronological order based on availability.
	
Non-Sovereign foreign currency Bonds are valued using either CBBT price, BVAL price, Bloomberg Generic price (BGN), 
Last available CBBT pricing for the instrument or Proxy Bond Pricing from Bloomberg in the chronological order based 
on availability.
	
Masala bonds are valued using either CBBT price, BVAL price or as per FIMMDA guided valuation methodology for unquoted 
bonds in the chronological order based on availability.
	
Special bonds such as oil bonds, fertilizer bonds, UDAY bonds etc. which are directly issued by Government of India (‘GOI’) is 
valued based on FBIL valuation.
	
Equity shares in the Bank’s demat account, acquired through exercise of pledge, is not accounted as investments. Upon sale 
of the pledged shares, the proceeds are utilised to offset the borrower’s liability.
	
Non-performing investments are identified, and depreciation / provision are made thereon as per the RBI guidelines. 
The criterion used to classify an asset as Non-Performing Asset (NPA) as per the extant Prudential Norms on Income 
Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning (IRACP) pertaining to Advances is used to classify an investment as a 
Non-Performing Investment (NPI). Similarly, an NPI shall only be upgraded to standard when it meets the criteria specified 
in the IRACP norms. Based on management assessment of impairment, the Bank additionally creates provision over and 
above the RBI guidelines. The depreciation / provision on such non-performing investments are not set off against the 
appreciation in respect of other performing securities. Interest on non-performing investments is not recognised in the 
Profit and Loss account until received in cash.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
464
YES BANK LIMITED
e)	
Profit/Loss on sale of Investments
	
Cost of investments is computed based on the First-In-First-Out (FIFO) method. Profit/Loss on sale of Investments in the 
HTM category is recognised in the profit and loss account and profit thereafter is appropriated (net of applicable taxes and 
statutory reserve requirements) to Capital Reserve. Profit/Loss on sale of investments in FVTPL and non-equity investment 
under AFS categories is recognised in the Profit and Loss account. Profit/Loss on sale of investments in equity investment 
under AFS category is transferred from AFS-reserve to the Capital Reserve.
f)	
Accounting for repos / reverse repos/Targeted Long-Term Repo Operations (TLTRO)
	
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase (Repos) and securities purchased under agreements to resell (Reverse 
Repos) including liquidity adjustment facility (LAF) with RBI are treated as collateralized borrowing and lending transactions 
respectively in accordance with RBI Circular DOR.MRG.42/21.04.141/2021-22 dated August 25, 2021. The first leg of the 
repo transaction is contracted at the prevailing market rates. The difference between consideration amounts of first and 
second (reversal of first) leg reflects interest and is recognised as interest income/expense over the period of transaction.
	
In compliance with RBI circular RBI/2022-23/55 DOR.ACC.REC.No.37/21.04.018/2022-23 dated May 19, 2022, reverse 
repos with banks and other institutions having original tenors more than 14 days classified under Schedule 9 – Advances.
g)	
Investment fluctuation reserve (IFR)
	
Transfer to IFR will be lower of the following (i) net profit on sale of investments during the year or (ii) net profit for the year 
less mandatory appropriations; until the amount of IFR is at least 2 percent of the FVTPL (including HFT) and AFS portfolio, 
on a continuing basis.
17.5.3 Advances
Accounting and classification
Advances are classified as performing and non-performing based on the relevant RBI guidelines. Advances are stated net of 
specific provisions, interest in suspense, inter-bank participation certificates issued, direct assignment and bills rediscounted.
Assets transferred through direct assignment of cash flows are de-recognised in the Balance Sheet when they are sold (true sale 
criteria being fully met with) and consideration is received by the Bank. For assets acquired under direct assignment / co-lending 
arrangements, the appropriation of recoveries and levy of penal interest / charges is in accordance with the contractual terms 
that have been agreed with the borrower.
Provisioning
Provisions in respect of non-performing advances are made based on management’s assessment of the degree of impairment 
of the advances, subject to the minimum provisioning level prescribed in relevant RBI guidelines. The specific provision levels for 
retail non-performing advances are also based on the nature of product and delinquency levels. Specific provisions in respect of 
non-performing advances are charged to the Profit and Loss account and included under Provisions and Contingencies. In relation 
to non-performing derivative contracts, as per the extant RBI guidelines, the Bank makes provision for the entire amount of 
overdue and future receivables relating to positive marked to market value of the said derivative contracts.
The Bank considers an account as restructured, where for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, 
the Bank grants concessions to the borrower, that the Bank would not otherwise consider. The moratorium granted to the 
borrowers based on RBI guidelines is not accounted as restructuring of loan. The RBI guidelines on ‘Resolution Framework for 
COVID-19-related Stress’ provide a prudential framework for resolution plan of certain loans. The borrowers where resolution 
plan was implemented under these guidelines are classified as standard restructured.
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
465
465
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In respect of loans reported as fraud to RBI the entire amount is provided for over a period not exceeding four quarters starting 
from the quarter in which fraud has been detected. In respect of loans where there has been delay in reporting the fraud to the 
RBI, the entire amount is provided immediately.
The Bank makes additional provisions as per RBI guidelines for the cases where viable resolution plan has not been implemented 
within timelines prescribed by RBI, from the date of default. These additional provisions are written back on satisfying the 
conditions for reversal as per RBI guidelines.
As per the RBI guidelines a general provision is made on all standard advances, including provision for borrowers having unhedged 
foreign currency exposure and for credit exposures computed as per the current marked to market values of interest rate and 
foreign exchange derivative contracts. The general provision also includes provision for stressed sector exposures and provision 
for incremental exposure of the banking system to a specified borrower beyond Normally Permitted Lending Limit (NPLL) in 
proportion to the Bank’s funded exposure to specified borrower. Further, provision requirement under various Restructure scheme 
of RBI also forms part of general provision. Such provisions are included in Schedule 5 - ‘Other liabilities & provisions - Others’.
In respect of restructured standard and non performing advances/investments, provision is made for the present value of 
principal and interest component sacrificed at the time of restructuring the assets, based on the RBI guidelines.
As per requirement of RBI guideline, any interest accrued and due if converted into a loan (i.e. Funded Interest Term Loan) then 
such income will be reversed and will be recognised on cash basis.
Accounts are written-off in accordance with the Bank’s policies. Recoveries from bad debts written-off are recognised in the 
Profit and Loss account and included under Provisions and Contingencies
The Bank has in place a Country Risk management policy as part of its Board approved Credit policy, which is based on extant 
regulatory guidelines and addresses the identification, measurement, monitoring and reporting of country risk. Countries are 
categorised into seven risk categories, viz. Insignificant, Low Risk, Moderately Low Risk, Moderate Risk, Moderately High Risk, 
High Risk and Very High Risk. The Bank calculates direct and indirect country risk in line with the Credit policy requirements. 
Indirect exposure is reckoned at 50% of the exposure in case of countries where the net funded exposure exceeds 1% of the Bank’s 
total assets. Further, if the net funded exposure of the Bank in respect of each country exceeds 1% of the Bank’s total assets, 
provisioning is required to be made on exposure to such countries. Depending on the risk category of the country, provisioning is 
done on a graded scale ranging from 0.25% to 100%.
The Bank has a Board approved policy for creation, utilization and accounting of contingency provisions. The contingency 
provision refers to specific provision recognised on the Bank’s standard advances / investments and NFB exposures over and 
above regulatory provision. The contingency provision will be utilized against creation of specific regulatory provision or provision 
as per Bank’s Policy. Contingency provisions shall not be reversed by credit to the profit and loss account unless the specific 
exposures have been fully or partially settled/paid off / written off. Until utilization, the contingency provisions shall not be 
netted from gross advances but shown separately as 'Contingent Provisions against Standard Assets' under 'Other Liabilities and 
Provisions Others' in Schedule 5 of the balance sheet.
The Bank has a Board approved policy for making floating provision, which is in addition to the specific and general provisions 
made by the Bank. The floating provision is utilised, with the approval of Board and RBI, in case of contingencies which do not 
arise in the normal course of business and are exceptional and non-recurring in nature and for making specific provision for 
impaired loans as per the requirement if extant RBI guidelines or any regulatory guidance/instructions. The floating provision is 
netted-off from advances.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
466
YES BANK LIMITED
17.5.4 Transactions involving foreign exchange
Foreign currency income and expenditure items of domestic operations are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on the 
date of the transaction. Income and expenditure items of integral foreign operations are translated at the daily average closing 
rates and of non-integral foreign operations (foreign branches) at the monthly average closing rates.
Premia/discounts on foreign exchange swaps, that are used to hedge risks arising from foreign currency assets and liabilities, are 
amortised over the life of the swap.
Monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at the balance sheet date at rates notified by the Foreign Exchange 
Dealers’ Association of India (‘FEDAI’). Foreign exchange contracts are stated at net present value using risk-free rates (‘RFRs’)/
SWAP curves of the respective currencies with the resulting unrealised gain or loss being recognised in the Profit and Loss 
Account and correspondingly in other assets (representing positive Mark-to-Market) and in other liabilities (representing negative 
Mark-to-Market (‘MTM’)) on a gross basis.
Financial conduct authority (‘FCA’) of the United Kingdom has phased out London interbank offered rate (‘LIBOR’) on 
December 2021, replacing it by Alternate Reference Rate (‘ARR’). Libor was used by the Bank as benchmark for funded as well as 
Non-funded exposure. Accordingly, Mumbai interbank forward offered rate (‘MIFOR’) (derived with LIBOR and forward premium 
in forex markets) has also been replaced by Modified MIFOR.
RBI vide the press release CO.FMRD.DIRD.S39/14.02.001/2021-22 on July 08, 2021 has encouraged the Banks to cease entering 
into new financial contracts that has reference LIBOR/MIFOR as a benchmark and instead use widely accepted ARR. The Bank 
has started offering new transaction based on ARR curve w.e.f January 1, 2022 except existing underlying transactions linked to 
LIBOR/MIFOR as permissible by the regulations.
In accordance with Accounting Standard (“AS”) 11 ‘The Effects of changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’, contingent liabilities in 
respect of outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts, derivatives, guarantees, endorsements and other obligations are 
stated at the exchange rates notified by FEDAI corresponding to the balance sheet date.
Both monetary and non-monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations are translated at 
closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI at the Balance Sheet date and the resulting profit / loss arising from exchange differences 
are accumulated in the Foreign Currency Translation Reserve until the disposal of the net investment in the non-integral 
foreign operations.
In accordance with the RBI clarification, the Bank does not recognise in the profit and loss account the proportionate exchange 
gains or losses held in the foreign currency translation reserve on repatriation of profits from overseas operations.
Currency future contracts are marked to market daily using settlement price on a trading day, which is the closing price of the 
respective future contracts on that day. While the daily settlement prices are computed on the basis of weighted average price of 
such contract, the final settlement price is taken as the RBI reference rate on the last trading day of the future contract or as may 
be specified by the relevant authority from time to time. All open positions are marked to market based on the settlement price 
and the resultant marked to market profit / loss is daily settled.
17.5.5 Earnings per share
The Group reports basic and diluted earnings per equity share in accordance with AS 20, “Earnings per Share”. Basic earnings per 
equity share have been computed by dividing net profit after tax for the year by the weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding for the period.
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
467
467
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Diluted earnings per equity share have been computed using the weighted average number of equity shares and dilutive potential 
equity shares outstanding during the period except where the results are anti -dilutive.
17.5.6 Accounting for derivative transactions
Derivative transactions comprise foreign exchange contracts, forward rate agreements, swaps and option contracts (including 
Exchange Traded Currency Option (ETCO)). The Bank undertakes derivative transactions for market making/trading and hedging 
on-balance sheet assets and liabilities. All market making/trading transactions are marked to market on a regular basis and the 
resultant unrealised gains/losses are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Derivative transactions that are undertaken for hedging are accounted for on accrual basis except for the transaction designated 
with an asset or liability that is carried at market value or lower of cost or market value in the financial statements, which are 
accounted similar to the underlying asset or liability.
Cross currency interest rate swaps which are used by the Bank to hedge its foreign currency borrowings are designated as cash 
flow hedges (effective hedges) and are measured at fair value. The corresponding gain or loss is recognised as cash flow hedge 
reserve. Further to match profit/ loss on account of revaluation of foreign currency borrowing, the corresponding amount is 
recycled from cash flow hedge reserve to Profit and Loss account.
The Bank follows the option premium accounting framework prescribed by FEDAI SPL- circular dated December 14, 2007. 
Premium on option transaction is recognised as income/expense on expiry or early termination of the transaction. Mark to market 
(MTM) gain/loss (adjusted for premium received/paid on option contracts) is recorded under ‘Other Income’.
The amounts received/paid on cancellation of option contracts are recognised as realised gains/losses on options. 
Charges receivable/payable on cancellation/ termination of foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps are recognised as 
income/ expense on the date of cancellation/ termination under ‘Other Income’.
Valuation of Interest Rate Futures (IRF) is carried out on the basis of the daily settlement price of each contract provided 
by the exchange.
The requirement for collateral and credit risk mitigation on derivative contracts is assessed based on internal credit policy. 
Overdue if any, on account of derivative transactions are accounted in accordance with extant RBI guidelines.
As per the RBI guidelines on ‘Prudential Norms for Off-balance Sheet Exposures of Banks’ a general provision is made on the 
current gross MTM gain of the contract for all outstanding interest rate and foreign exchange derivative transactions.
The Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts Act, 2020 (the Act), has been notified by the Government of India and 
subsequent to this the RBI through circular dated March 30, 2021 allowed netting of the Qualified Financial Contracts (QFC). 
In respect of derivative contracts, the Bank has computed the exposure under the Current Exposure Method for counterparty 
credit risk capital computation based on the guidelines issued by RBI on “Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts - 
Amendments to Prudential Guidelines” dated March 30, 2021 and subsequent amendments dated March 31, 2022 and August 11, 
2022 for eligible counterparties.
17.5.7 Fixed assets
Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation, amortization and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises 
the purchase price including import duties and non –refundable purchase taxes, after deducting trade discounts and rebates and 
any cost attributable for bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. Subsequent expenditure incurred on 
assets put to use is capitalised only when it increases the future benefit /functioning capability from / of such assets.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
468
YES BANK LIMITED
Capital work-in-progress includes cost of fixed assets that are not ready for their intended use and also includes advances paid 
to acquire fixed assets.
17.5.8 Non-banking assets
Non-banking assets (NBAs) acquired in satisfaction of claims are carried at lower of net book value and net realisable value, 
whichever is lower. Further, the Bank creates provision on these assets as per the extant RBI guidelines or specific RBI directions.
17.5.9 Depreciation
Depreciation on fixed assets is provided on straight-line method for the complete month of the purchase, over estimated useful 
lives, as determined by the management, as mentioned below
Class of asset
Useful life of Assets as per 
Companies Act, 2013
Useful life of Assets as per 
the Group's Accounting Policy
Owned Premises
60 years
60 years
Office equipment 
5 years
5 years
Computer hardware1,2
6 years
3-6 years
Computer software1,2
6 years
5 years
Vehicles1
8 years
5 years
Furniture and Fixtures
10 years
10 years
Leasehold improvements to premises
-
Over the lease period or 9 
years whichever is less.
1 Based on technical evaluation, the management believes that the useful lives as given above best represent the period over which management 
expects to use these assets. Hence, the useful lives for these assets are different from the useful lives as prescribed under Part C of Schedule II 
of the Companies Act 2013.
2Based on internal technical evaluation and past experience, the management has decided to change in useful lives of Computer Hardware 
which primarily includes servers/ networks/ data center assets to 6 years (excluding end user technology assets like laptops and desktops) and 
Computer software to 5 years w.e.f. April 01, 2024 as against 3 years and 4 years respectively.
	
Asset costing up to ` 5,000 are fully depreciated in the year of purchase.
	
For assets purchased/ sold during the year, depreciation is being provided on pro rata basis by the Group.
	
Profit on sale of premises by the Bank is appropriated to capital reserve, net of transfer to Statutory Reserve taxes, in 
accordance with RBI guidelines.
	
Subsequent improvements to leasehold assets are depreciated over the remaining period of lease
	
Reimbursement, if any, is recognised on receipt and is adjusted to the book value of asset and depreciated over the balance 
life of the asset
	
Whenever there is a revision in the estimated useful life of the asset, the unamortised depreciable amount is charged over 
the revised remaining useful life of the said asset
	
The useful life of assets is based on historical experience of the Group, which is different from the useful life as prescribed 
in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
469
469
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.5.10 Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired. Impairment 
loss, if any, is provided in the Profit and Loss Account to the extent the carrying amount of assets exceeds their estimated 
recoverable amount.
17.5.11 Employee benefits
Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘ESOS’)
The Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘the Scheme’) provides for the grant of options to acquire equity shares of the Group to its 
employees. The options granted to employees vest in a graded manner and these may be exercised by the employees within 
specified periods.
Measurement of the employee share-based payment plans is done in accordance with the Guidance Note on Accounting for 
Employee Share-based Payments issued by Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021. RBI, vide its clarification dated August 30, 2021 
on Guidelines on Compensation of Whole Time Directors / Chief Executive Officers / Material Risk Takers and Control Function 
Staff, advised banks that the fair value of share-linked instruments on the date of grant should be recognised as an expense 
for all instruments granted after the accounting period ending March 31, 2021. Accordingly, the Bank changed its accounting 
policy from the intrinsic value method to the fair value method for all share-linked instruments granted after March 31, 2021. 
The fair value of the stock-based compensation is estimated on the date of grant using Black-Scholes model is recognised as 
compensation expense over the vesting period.
Options granted till March 31, 2021, the Bank measures compensation cost relating to employee stock options using the 
intrinsic value method. Compensation cost is measured by the excess, if any, of the fair market price of the underlying stock 
(i.e. the last closing price on the stock exchange on the day preceding the date of grant of stock options) over the exercise price. 
The exercise price of the Bank’s stock option is the last closing price on the stock exchange on the day preceding the date of grant 
of stock options.
YSIL measures compensation cost relating to employee stock options using the intrinsic value method. Compensation cost in 
case of YSIL is measured by the excess, if any, of the fair value of underlying YSIL shares as on issue date over the exercise price. 
The fair value of the stock-based compensation in case of YSIL is estimated on the date of grant using discounted cashflow 
method and expensed over the vesting period.
Compensated absences
The employees of the Bank are entitled to carry forward a part of their unavailed/unutilised privilege leave subject to a maximum 
limit. The employees cannot encash unavailed/unutilised leave except employees based out of Abu Dhabi Representative Office 
(“ADRO”) and employees superannuating from the Bank. Employees based at ADRO are allowed to encash remaining annual leave 
only at the time resignation/termination/transfer to another country. Employees superannuating is allowed to encash a maximum 
of 30 days privilege leave balance at time of superannuation. The Bank provides for leave encashment / compensated absences 
based on an independent actuarial valuation at the Balance Sheet date, which includes assumptions about demographics, early 
retirement, salary increases, interest rates and leave utilisation.
Gratuity
The Group provides for gratuity, for all employees. The Gratuity is payable to an employee as per Payment of Gratuity Act. 
The Group accounts for the liability for future gratuity benefits using the projected unit credit method based on independent 
actuarial valuation.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
470
YES BANK LIMITED
The defined gratuity benefit plans are valued by an independent actuary as at the Balance Sheet date using the projected unit 
credit method as per the requirement of AS-15, Employee Benefits, to determine the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation and the related service costs. Under this method, the determination is based on actuarial calculations, which include 
assumptions about demographics, early retirement, salary increases and interest rates. Actuarial gain or loss is recognised in the 
Profit and Loss account.
Provident fund
All employees of the Group are covered under the Employees Provident Fund, a defined contribution plan in which both the 
employee and the Bank contribute monthly. Contribution to provident fund is recognised as expense as and when the services are 
rendered. The Group has no liability for future provident fund benefits other than its monthly contribution.
National Pension Scheme (NPS)
The NPS is a defined contribution retirement plan. The primary objective is enabling systematic savings and to provide retirees 
with an option to achieve financial stability. Pension contributions are invested in the pension fund schemes. The Bank has no 
liability for future fund benefits other than the voluntary contribution made by employees who agree to contribute to the scheme.
17.5.12 Leases
Leases where the lessor effectively retains substantially all risks and benefits of ownership are classified as operating leases. 
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term 
in accordance with AS -19, Leases.
17.5.13 Income taxes
Tax expense comprises of current and deferred tax. Current tax comprises of the amount of tax for the period determined in 
accordance with the Income-tax Act, 1961 and the rules framed there under. Deferred taxes reflect the impact of timing differences 
between taxable income and accounting income for the current year and reversal of timing differences of earlier years and carry 
forward losses. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for the future tax consequences of timing differences between 
the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and operating loss carry forwards. Deferred tax assets 
and liabilities are measured using the enacted or substantively enacted tax rates at the balance sheet date. The impact of changes 
in deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent there is reasonable certainty that the assets can be realised in future. 
Deferred tax assets in case of unabsorbed depreciation/ losses are recognised only if there is virtual certainty that such deferred 
tax asset can be realised against future taxable profits. Deferred tax assets are recognised and reassessed at each balance 
sheet date based upon management’s judgement and appropriately adjusted to reflect the amount that is reasonably certain 
to be realised.
17.5.14 Provisions and contingent assets/liabilities
In accordance with AS-29, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, the Group creates a provision when there is a 
present obligation as a result of a past event that probably requires an outflow of resources, and a reliable estimate can be made 
of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. If it is no longer probable 
that an outflow of resources would be required to settle the obligation, the provision is reversed.
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
471
471
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events whose existence will be confirmed by the occurrence 
or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Bank or a present obligation that 
arises from past events that is not recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle 
the obligation or a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation cannot be made. The Group does not recognize a contingent 
liability but discloses its existence in the consolidated financial statements.
Contingent assets are not recognised in the consolidated financial statements. However, contingent assets are assessed 
continually and if it is virtually certain that an inflow of economic benefits will arise, the asset and related income are recognised 
in the period in which the change occurs.
17.5.15 Cash and Cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, including foreign currency notes, balances with RBI, balances with other banks 
and money at call and short notice.
17.5.16 Corporate social responsibility
Expenditure towards corporate social responsibility, in accordance with Companies Act, 2013, are recognised in the Profit 
and Loss account.
17.5.17 Debit and credit cards reward points
The Bank estimates the probable redemption of debit and credit card reward points and cost per point using actuarial valuation 
method by employing an independent actuary, which includes assumptions such as mortality, redemption and spends.
Provisions for liabilities on said reward points are made based on the actuarial valuation report as furnished by the said 
independent actuary and included in other liabilities.
17.5.18 Bullion
The Bank imports bullion (gold and silver bars) on a consignment basis for selling to its customers. The imports are typically based 
on a request of the client and are settled based on a back-to-back price fixing with supplier and client. The Bank earns a fee on 
such bullion transactions. The fee is classified in other income. The Bank also deals in gold borrowing and lending and the interest 
paid/received thereon is classified as interest expense / income respectively.
17.5.19 Share issue expenses
Share issue expenses are adjusted from Share Premium Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
17.5.20 Segment information
The disclosure relating to segment information is in accordance with AS-17, Segment Reporting and as per guidelines issued by 
RBI from time to time.
17.5.21 Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs)
The Bank, in accordance with RBI circular FIDD.CO.Plan.BC.23/ 04.09.01/2015-16 dated April 7, 2016, trades in priority sector 
portfolio by selling or buying PSLCs. There is no transfer of risks or loan assets in these transactions. The fees paid/received for 
purchase/sale of PSLCs is amortised in the complete quarter of purchase/sale of PSLC on a straight-line basis over the life of 
the certificate.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
472
YES BANK LIMITED
17.6 Capital
17.6.1 Equity Issue
During the year ended March 31, 2025 the Bank has allotted:
A.	
2,559,761,818 equity shares of ` 2/- each pursuant to exercise of share warrants, and 
B.	
26,471,398 equity shares (Previous year: 13,106,772 equity shares) of face value of ` 2 each pursuant to the exercise of 
stock options by employees under the approved stock option schemes.
Movement in Share Capital
(` in million)
 Share Capital
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Opening Share Capital
57,535.76
57,509.55
Addition due to exercise of Stock Option
 52.94 
 26.21 
Addition due to shares issued on a preferential basis
 5,119.52 
 - 
Closing Share Capital
 62,708.23 
 57,535.76 
The Bank has accreted ` 33,198.83 million during the year ended March 31, 2025 (Previous year: ` 173.58 million) towards 
share premium.
17.6.2 Share Warrants Subscription Money
Share warrants at March 31, 2024 represents 2,559,761,818 share warrants convertible into equity shares of face value ` 2 each 
paid up to the extent of 25% of the issue price of ` 14.82 per share warrant on a preferential basis in an equal ratio to two marquee 
investors totaling to ` 9,483.92 million allotted by the Bank during FY2023. Each Share Warrant was convertible to one fully paid 
equity share of the Bank, upon exercise of the option by paying the remaining 75% within 18 months of allotment.
During the year ended March 31, 2025 the Bank has allotted 2,559,761,818 equity shares of ` 2/- each pursuant to exercise of 
share warrants by both the allottees for 1,279,880,909 equity shares to each allotee upon receipt of ` 28,451.75 million that 
represents 75% of the issue price of ` 14.82 per share warrant. Resultantly, the share capital and share premium had increased 
by ` 5,119.52 million and ` 32,816.15 million respectively.
17.6.3 Proposed Dividend:
During the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 the Bank has not declared any dividend on equity shares.
17.6.4 Employee Stock Option Reserve
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has recognised ` 697.38 million (Previous year: ` 312.56 million) to Employee 
Stock Options Reserve on account of fair valuation of share-linked instruments. During the year ended March 31, 2025, on 
exercise of share-linked instruments, an amount of ` 74.25 million (Previous year: ` 28.28 million) is transferred from Employees 
Stock Options Reserve to share premium and on account of lapsed/cancelled vested options, an amount of ` 13.36 million 
(Previous year: Nil) is transferred from Employees Stock Options Reserve to General Reserve (included in “Other Reserve”).
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
473
473
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.6.5 Other Reserves:
A.	
Revenue and Other reserves
	
With respect to six accounts classified as fraud the Group has debited ` 6.45 million from Revenue and other Reserves on 
account of unamortised fraud provision in terms of RBI circular DOR.No.STR.REC.55/21.04.048/2021-22 dated October 1, 
2021 (Previous year: for five borrower accounts, unamortised fraud provision amounting to ` 25.83 million debited).
B.	
AFS reserves
	
Pursuant to RBI circular reference number RBI/DOR/2023-24/104 Ref.No. DOR.MRG.36/21.04.141/2023-24 dated 
September 12, 2023 “Master Direction - Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio of Commercial 
Banks (Directions), 2023”as amended from time to time, the Group has transferred ` 1,671.51 million net of tax (Previous 
year: Nil) during the year ended March 31, 2025.
C.	
General Reserves
	
During the year ended March 31, 2025 the Bank has transferred ` 2,284.98 million (Previous year: Nil) to General reserve. 
This comprises of ` 1,254.78 million (net of tax) on account of transition gain, ` 1,016.84 million (net of tax) on account of 
transfer from Investment Reserve Account to General Reserve in compliance with the RBI circular dated September 13, 
2023. Further, an amount of ` 13.36 million (Previous year: Nil) is transferred from Employees Stock Options Reserve to 
General Reserve, in respect of vested employee stock options/units that have lapsed.
17.6.6 Provisions and contingencies
The breakup of provisions of the Group for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are given below:
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Provision for taxation@
 7,773.41 
 2,524.87 
Provision for non-performing investments$
 (17,374.25)
 (5,425.77) 
Provision for standard advances
 (1,790.31)
 (1,011.48)
Provision made/write off for non-performing advances
 28,787.16 
 24,382.31 
Other Provisions*
 1,233.46 
 920.45 
 18,629.47 
 21,390.38 
@ Details in note 17.6.7
$ Includes income received from securitization trusts
* Other Provisions includes provision made against other assets.
FY2025
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has transferred 67,765 stressed loans of gross value ` 5,062.71 million to 
ARCs. The net book value (‘NBV’) of these exposures in the Bank’s books as on the date of assignment was Nil and the final 
consideration received was ` 278.20 million under “100% upfront cash basis”. The realised profit amounting ` 278.20 million due 
to cash recovery exceeding the net book value of stressed loans was credited to Profit and Loss Account during the year ended 
March 31, 2025.
FY2024
During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Bank has transferred two stressed loans of gross value ` 6,903.20 million to ARCs. 
The net book value (‘NBV’) of these exposures in the Bank’s books as on the date of assignment was ` 1,420.84 million and the 
final consideration received was ` 3,364.00 million under “100% upfront cash basis”. The realised profit amounting ` 1,943.16 
million due to cash recovery exceeding the net book value of stressed loans was credited to Profit and Loss Account during the 
year ended March 31, 2024.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
474
YES BANK LIMITED
17.6.7 Income Taxes
Provisions made for Income Tax during the year
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Current Tax
-
-
Deferred tax
 8,083.23 
 3,780.63 
(Write back)/Additional provision of Income Tax pertaining to previous years
 (309.82)
 (1,255.76)
TOTAL 
 7,773.41 
 2,524.87 
17.6.7 Staff retirement benefits 
The following table sets out the funded status of the Gratuity Plan and the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial 
statements as of March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 which is as per AS-15 Employee Benefits (Revised):
a)	
Changes in present value of Obligations:
(` in million)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Present Value of Obligation at the beginning of the year
 1,778.34 
 1,597.32 
Interest Cost
 126.27 
 115.24 
Current Service Cost
 339.53
 266.52 
Past Service Cost
 - 
 - 
Liability transferred from other company
2.25
-
Benefits Paid
 (308.10)
 (255.22)
Actuarial (gain)/loss on Obligation
 43.39 
 54.48 
Present Value of Obligation at the end of the year
 1,981.69 
 1,778.34 
b)	
Changes in the fair value of plan assets:
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
 1,318.70
 1,439.85 
Adjustment to Opening Balance
 - 
 - 
Expected return on plan assets
 93.56 
 103.84 
Contributions
 202.47
 (11.00)
Benefits paid
 (308.10)
 (233.22)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on plan assets
 10.29 
 19.22 
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the period 
 1,316.91 
 1,318.70 
The Group has entire contribution of Gratuity Fund as Investments with Insurance Companies which are invested primarily in debt 
instruments as approved by IRDAI.
Estimated rate of return on plan assets is based on the expected average long-term rate of return on investments of the Fund 
during the estimated term of the obligations. 
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
475
475
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Net gratuity cost for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 comprises the following components: 
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Current Service Cost
339.53
 266.52 
Interest Cost
 126.27 
 115.24 
Expected Return on plan assets
 (93.56)
 (103.84)
Net Actuarial gain recognised in the year
 33.11 
 35.21 
Past Service Cost
 - 
 - 
Expenses recognised 
 405.35 
 313.12 
Experience History:
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
March 31, 
2021
(Gain)/Loss on obligation due to change in assumption
(37.81)
 6.50 
(352.89)
(26.74)
-
Experience (Gain)/Loss on obligation
81.21
 47.98 
63.08
 (126.45)
(137.29)
Actuarial Gain/(Loss) on plan assets
10.29
 19.22 
(26.93)
 34.08
30.23
The assumptions used in accounting for the gratuity plan are set out below:
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Discount Rate
6.50%-6.55%
 7.1%-7.2% 
Expected Return on Plan Assets
7.00%-8.00%
 7.00%-7.10% 
Mortality
100% of IALM 2012-14
100% of IALM 2012-14
Future Salary Increases
8%-9.55%
 9%-10% 
Disability
-
-
Attrition
25%-41%
26%-41%
Retirement
60 years
60 Years
Actuarial assumption on salary increase also takes into consideration the inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant 
factors. 
Position of plan asset / liability
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the period 
 1,316.91 
 1,318.70 
Present Value of Obligation at the end of the year
 1,981.69 
 1,778.29 
Plan asset / (liability)
 (664.77)
 (459.59)
As the contribution expected to be paid to the plan during the annual period beginning after the balance sheet date is based on 
various internal/external factors, a best estimate of the contribution is not determinable.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
476
YES BANK LIMITED
National Pension Scheme
The Group has contributed ` 115.08 million for the year ended March 31, 2025 (Previous year: ` 85.45 million) to NPS for 
employees who had opted for the scheme. The Bank has no liability for future fund benefits other than its annual contribution for 
the employees who agree to contribute to the scheme.
Provident Fund (PF)
The Group has recognised in the profit and loss account ` 1,421.78 million for the year ended March 31, 2025 (Previous year: 
` 1,358.91 million) towards contribution to the provident fund.
Compensated absences
The Group has recognised ` 137.86 million in the profit and loss account for the year ended March 31, 2025 (Previous year: 
` 94.91 million) towards compensated absences.
17.6.8 Segment Results
Pursuant to the guidelines issued by RBI on AS-17 (Segment Reporting) - Enhancement of Disclosures dated April 18, 2007, 
effective from period ending March 31, 2008, the following business segments have been reported.
Business segments have been identified and reported taking into account the target customer profile, the nature of products 
and services, the differing risks and returns, the organisation structure, the internal business reporting structure, guidelines 
prescribed by the RBI and in accordance with the Accounting Standard 17. Accordingly, this disclosure has been prepared basis 
principles laid down in the regulatory guidelines which is distinct from the internal business segments reporting of the Bank.
	
Treasury: Includes investments, all financial markets activities undertaken on behalf of the customers, proprietary trading, 
maintenance of reserve requirements and resource mobilization from other banks and financial institutions.
	
Corporate Banking / Wholesale Banking: Includes lending, deposit taking and other services offered to corporate customers.
	
Retail Banking: Includes lending, deposit taking and other services offered to retail customers. RBI in its Circular DOR.AUT.
REC.12/22.01.001/2022-23 dated April 7, 2022, for the purpose of disclosure under Accounting Standard 17, Segment 
Reporting, has identified ‘Digital Banking’ as a sub-segment under Retail Banking. The Bank has presented segment results 
pertaining to the said DBU of the Bank in sub-segment ‘Digital Banking’ of Retail banking segment.
	
Other Banking Operations: Includes para banking activities like third party product distribution which is undertaken through 
branches, custody, clearing and demat operations, security broking etc.
Segmental results for the year ended March 31, 2025 are set out below:
(` in million)
Business Segments 
 Treasury 
 Corporate / 
Wholesale 
Banking 
 Retail Banking#  Other Banking 
Operations 
 Total 
Segment Revenue 
 75,972.87 
 123,229.59 
 150,906.71 
 12,951.64 
 363,060.81 
Add/(Less): Inter-segment 
7,695.42
Exceptional item 
-
Revenue net of inter- segment 
370,756.23
Result 
 22,924.39 
 28,460.43 
 (21,404.96)
 7,392.80 
 37,372.66 
Unallocated Expenses 
 (5,133.25)
Operating Profit 
 32,239.41 
Income Taxes 
 7,773.41 
Extra-ordinary Profit/(Loss) 
 - 
Net Profit 
 24,466.00 
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
477
477
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in million)
Business Segments 
 Treasury 
 Corporate / 
Wholesale 
Banking 
 Retail Banking#  Other Banking 
Operations 
 Total 
Other Information: 
Segment assets 
1,598,172.54
1,236,072.79
1,291,352.46
9,506.33
4,135,104.12
Unallocated assets 
 106,055.22 
Total assets 
 4,241,159.34 
Segment liabilities 
821,521.56
1,315,085.17
1,615,269.37
4,723.72
3,756,599.82
Unallocated liabilities 
484,559.52
Total liabilities
4,241,159.34
Other banking operations includes income from bancassurance business ` 7,621.94 million during year ended March 31, 2025.
# Segmental results of sub-segment 'Digital Banking' of Retail banking segment above.
(` in million)
Digital Banking (a sub-segment of Retail banking segment)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
Segment Revenue
 2.86
Result
 (9.23)
Segment assets
 17.63
Segment liabilities
 25.59
Segmental results for the year ended March 31, 2024 are set out below:
(` in million)
Business Segments 
 Treasury 
 Corporate / 
Wholesale 
Banking 
 Retail Banking#  Other Banking 
Operations 
 Total 
Segment Revenue
75,523.94
101,642.41
141,532.91
12,197.15
330,896.42
Add/ (Less): Inter-segment
(1,287.52)
Exceptional Item
-
Revenue net of inter- segment
329,608.89
Result
13,628.35
13,844.55
(9,725.75)
6,170.77
 23,907.91 
Unallocated Expenses
(8,531.02)
Operating Profit
15,376.89
Income Taxes
2,524.87
Extra-ordinary Profit/(Loss)
-
Net Profit
12,852.02
Other Information:
Segment assets
1,605,567.01
1,072,653.54
1,264,924.91
10,268.40
3,953,413.86
Unallocated assets
110,201.60
Total assets
4,063,615.46
Segment liabilities
880,772.16
1,196,719.82
1,553,644.50
5,189.89
3,636,326.36
Unallocated liabilities
427,289.10
Total liabilities
4,063,615.46
Other banking operations includes income from bancassurance business ` 6,917.51 million during year ended March 31, 2024.
# Segmental results of sub-segment 'Digital Banking' of Retail banking segment above.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
478
YES BANK LIMITED
(` in million)
Digital Banking (a sub-segment of Retail banking segment)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Segment Revenue
 2.44 
Result
 (4.74)
Segment assets
 14.60 
Segment liabilities
 24.08 
Notes for segment reporting:
1.	
The business of the Group is largely concentrated in India. Business conducted through IFSC Banking Unit ('IBU') of the Bank situated 
in GIFT City, Gujarat is considered as overseas operation that is subject to different risks and returns than domestic operations of the 
Bank. Since revenue, result or assets emanating from the Bank's IBU operations are not material, there are no separate reportable 
geographical segments.
2.	
In computing the above information, certain estimates and assumptions have been made by the Management.
3.	
Income, expense, assets and liabilities have been either specifically identified with individual segment or allocated to segments on a 
systematic basis or classified as unallocated.
4.	
The unallocated assets includes tax paid in advance/tax deducted at source and deferred tax asset.
5.	
The unallocated liabilities include Share Capital and Reserves & Surplus.
6.	
 Inter-segment transactions have been generally based on transfer pricing measures as determined by the Management.
17.6.9 Related Party Disclosures
The Group has transactions with its related parties comprising of key management personnel and the relatives of key 
management personnel, enterprise over which the group has control by way of controlling the composition their governing body 
and investing company.
As per AS 18 “Related Party Disclosures”, notified under section 133 of the Companies Act 2013, read together with paragraph 
7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules 2014, the group’s related parties for the period ended March 31, 2025 are disclosed below:
Enterprise over which the Group has control by way of controlling the composition of their corresponding governing body
	
YES Foundation
Individuals having significant influence & Key Management Personnel (‘KMP’) (Whole time Directors) and their relatives (to the 
extent transactions made):
	
Mr. Prashant Kumar, Managing Director & CEO
	
Relatives - Neelam Agarwal
	
Mr. Rajan Pental, Executive Director
	
Relatives - Anju Pental, Aryan Pental, Shreya Pental, Jyoti Walia, Sangeeta Rajpal, Praveen Rajpal, Rajeev Kumar
	
Mr. Manish Jain, Executive Director*
	
Relatives - Sarika Jain, Dr. Mahesh Chand Jain, Sushma Jain, Arushi Jain
	
* Mr. Manish Jain has been appointed as Executive Director effective December 11, 2024.
Investing Company
	
State Bank of India Limited (SBI). As per Accounting Standard 18 - Related Party Disclosure, SBI is an investing company for 
YES Bank Limited and YES Bank Limited is an associate of SBI.
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
479
479
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following represents the significant transactions between the group and such related parties for the period ended 
March 31, 2025:
(` in million)
Items / Related Party 
Category
Investing 
party
Maximum 
Balance 
during 
the year
Enterprise over which the 
group has control by way of 
controlling the composition 
of their corresponding 
governing body
Maximum 
Balance 
during 
the year
KMP / Whole 
time directors / 
Individual having 
significant 
influence
Maximum 
Balance 
during 
the year
Relatives of 
KMP / Whole 
time directors / 
Individual having 
significant influence
Maximum 
Balance 
during the 
year
Borrowings
#
#
-
-
-
-
-
-
Deposits
#
#
#
#
149.78*
307.23@
19.53*
36.01@
Placement of Deposits
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Advances (Overdraft)
#
#
-
-
-
-
-
-
Investment
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Non-Funded 
Commitments
#
#
-
-
-
-
-
-
Interest received
-
-
-
-
-!
-
-!
-
Interest paid
#
-
-
-
9.22
-
1.05
-
Reimbursement of Cost 
incurred
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Receiving of services
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Payables
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Receivables
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Sale of Fixed Assets
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Purchase of Fixed 
Assets
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Leasing/HP 
arrangements availed
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Leasing/HP 
arrangements provided
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Remuneration paid~
-
-
-
-
96.66
-
-
-
Donation / 
Contributions made^
-
-
#
-
-
-
-
-
# Secrecy provision: As per RBI Circular RBI/DOR/2021-22/83 DOR.ACC.REC No.45/21.04.2018/2021-22 dated August 30,2021 (as updated 
from time to time), where there is only one entity in any category of related party, banks need not disclose any details pertaining to that related 
party other than the relationship with that related party. Therefore, only the nature of relationship is disclosed, and summarized counterparty 
details are provided for website publication. In order to maintain secrecy of transactions pertaining to the individual parties.
^ During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has contributed ` 219.00 million to YES Foundation. YES Foundation is public charitable trust 
which undertakes social charitable activities.
*Represents balance as on March 31, 2025. These balances include CASA and Fixed deposit balances.
@Represents the maximum month end balance maintained upto year ended March 31, 2025. 
! Represents values of the related party transactions during the reporting period and their balances having amounts below ` 500 
Values of the related party transactions during the reporting period and their balances containing amounts below ` 50,000 are denoted as ‘0.00’.
~Remuneration includes remuneration of Managing Director & CEO & one Executive Director for the period April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 and 
remuneration of the other Executive Director for the period December 11, 2024 to March 31, 2025.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
480
YES BANK LIMITED
The following represents the significant transactions between the Bank and such related parties including relatives of above 
mentioned KMP during the year ended March 31, 2024:
(` in million)
Items / Related Party 
Category
Investing 
party
Maximum 
Balance 
during 
the year
Enterprise over which the 
group has control by way of 
controlling the composition 
of their corresponding 
governing body
Maximum 
Balance 
during 
the year
KMP / Whole 
time directors / 
Individual having 
significant 
influence
Maximum 
Balance 
during 
the year
Relatives of 
KMP / Whole 
time directors / 
Individual having 
significant influence
Maximum 
Balance 
during the 
year
Borrowings
#
#
-
-
-
-
-
-
Deposits^
#
#
#
#
3.33*
20.95@
0.54*
0.89@
Placement of 
Deposits
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Advances (Overdraft)
#
#
-
-
0.00*
0.00
0.07*
0.19@
Investment
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Non-Funded 
Commitments
#
#
-
-
-
-
-
-
Interest received
#
-
-
-
-
-
0.01 
-
Interest paid
#
-
#
-
0.34
-
0.03
-
Reimbursement of 
Cost incurred
#
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Receiving of services
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Payables
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Receivables
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Sale of Fixed Assets
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Purchase of Fixed 
Assets
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Leasing/HP 
arrangements 
availed
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Leasing/HP 
arrangements 
provided
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Remuneration paid
-
-
-
-
78.87
-
-
-
Donation / 
Contributions made
-
-
#
-
-
-
-
-
# Secrecy provision: As per RBI Circular RBI/DOR/2021-22/83 DOR.ACC.REC No.45/21.04.2018/2021-22 dated August 30, 2021 (as updated 
from time to time), where there is only one entity in any category of related party, banks need not disclose any details pertaining to that related 
party other than the relationship with that related party. Therefore, only the nature of relationship is disclosed, and summarized counterparty 
details are provided for website publication. In order to maintain secrecy of transactions pertaining to the individual parties.
^ In accordance with the proviso to Regulation 2(1) (zc) of SEBI LODR dated December 12, 2024, acceptance of CASA from related parties (on 
uniformly applicable terms) has been exempted from the definition of RPT hence CASA will not be regarded as related party transaction.
*Represents balance as on March 31, 2024
@Represents the maximum month end balance maintained upto year ended March 31, 2024.
Values of the related party transactions during the reporting period and their balances containing amounts below ` 50,000 are denoted as ‘0.00’.
17.6.10 Operating Leases
Lease payments recognised in the profit and loss account for the year ended March 31, 2025 was ` 4,880.63 million (Previous 
year: ` 4,346.66 million). During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Group had paid minimum lease payment ` 4,662.92 million 
(Previous year: ` 4,097.57 million).
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
481
481
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, the details of future rentals payment on operating leases:
(` in million)
Lease obligations
As at
 March 31, 2025
As at
 March 31, 2024
Not later than one year
4,253.17
 3,962.37 
Later than one year and not later than five years
13,588.23
 13,551.84 
Later than five years
12,457.35
 13,568.32 
Total
30,298.75
 31,082.53 
The Group does not have any provisions relating to contingent rent.
The terms of renewal/purchase options and escalation clauses are those normally prevalent in similar agreements. There are no 
undue restrictions or onerous clauses in the agreements.
17.6.11 Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’) 
The Group reports basic and diluted earnings per equity share in accordance with Accounting Standard (AS) 20, “Earnings Per 
Share”. The dilutive impact is mainly due to stock options granted to employees by the Bank and share warrants convertible into 
equity shares. The computation of earnings per share is given below:
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Net profit / (loss) after tax (`)
Basic earnings per share (`)
 24,464.93
 12,852.02
Diluted earnings per share (`)
 0.79
 0.45
Nominal value per share (`)
 0.78
 0.44
2
2
Reconciliation between weighted shares used in computation of basic and diluted
earnings per share
Basic weighted average no. of equity shares outstanding
31,154,662,422
28,759,039,213
Add: Effect of potential equity shares*
149,351,269
 666,289,397 
Diluted Weighted average no. of equity shares outstanding
31,304,013,690
 29,425,328,611
The difference between weighted average number of equity shares outstanding between basic and diluted in the above-mentioned 
disclosure is on account of outstanding ESOPs and share warrants convertible into equity shares.
Basic earnings per equity share have been computed by dividing net profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders by 
the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding for the year. Diluted earnings per equity share have been computed 
by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders by the weighted average number of equity shares 
and dilutive potential equity shares options outstanding during the year, except where the results are anti-dilutive. The dilutive 
impact is on account of stock options granted to employees by the Bank and allotment of share warrants convertible into equity 
shares. There is no impact of dilution on the profits in the current year and previous year.
17.6.12 ESOP disclosures
YES Bank Limited
Effective September 10, 2020 nomenclature of YBL Employee Stock Option Scheme, 2018 (‘YBL ESOS – 2018’) changed to YBL 
Employee Stock Option Scheme, 2020 (YBL ESOS 2020) and all the plans under the said scheme continue to be valid. The YBL 
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
482
YES BANK LIMITED
ESOS 2020 consists of YBL Joining Employee Stock Option Plan, 2018 (JESOP 2018), YBL Performance Employee Stock Option 
Plan, 2020 (PESOP 2020) and YBL MD&CEO Stock Option Plan, 2020 (MD&CEO Plan 2020). All new Options have been granted 
under the YBL ESOS 2020 (which inter-alia consist of JESOP 2018, PESOP 2020 and MD & CEO Plan 2020). YBL ESOS 2020 and 
plans formulated thereunder are in compliance with the SEBI (Share Based Employees Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021 (SEBI ESOP Regulations) as amended from time to time. Source of shares are primary in nature, since the Bank has been 
issuing new equity shares upon exercise of options.
Grants under JESOP V and PESOP II -2010 (‘the old plans’) had been discontinued w.e.f. June 12, 2018 pursuant to coming into 
effect of YBL ESOS 2018. Grants under PESOP 2018 (the old plans’) had been discontinued post April 1, 2019 pursuant to coming 
into effect of YBL ESOS 2020. However, options already granted and exercisable under all the old plans are valid in accordance 
with the terms & conditions mentioned therein.
Further, the Bank has introduced two new plans under the YBL ESOS 2020 in FY’25, YBL MD&CEO (NEW) Stock Option Plan, 
2025 (MD&CEO Plan 2025) and YBL Performance Employee Stock Option Plan, 2025 (PESOP 2025), approved via a resolution 
passed on February 22, 2025, pursuant to this, grants under MD&CEO Plan 2020 and PESOP 2020 have been discontinued. 
However, any Options already granted under the abovementioned plans would be valid in accordance with the terms & conditions 
mentioned in the plans.
Options under all the above-mentioned plans are granted for a term of 10 years (inclusive of the vesting period as mentioned 
below) and are settled with equity shares to the beneficiary upon exercise:
JESOP / PESOP
ESOP Scheme
Vesting period
JESOP
JESOP V and JESOP 2018
50% after 3 years and balance after 5 years from the Grant date
PESOP
PESOP II – 2010 and PESOP 2018
30%, 30% & 40% each year, from end of 3rd year from the Grant date
PESOP 2020
25% will vest at the end of 12, 24, 36, 42 months from the grant date
PESOP 2025
25% will vest at the end of 12, 24, 36, 48 months from the Grant date
MD & CEO Plan
MD & CEO plan 2020
25% will vest at the end of 12, 24, 36, 42 months from the grant date
MD & CEO Plan 2025
25% will vest at the end of 12, 24, 36, 48 months from the Grant date
RSU / RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS PLAN
The Bank launched the “YBL Restricted Stock Units Plan 2024” (RSU-2024) for its employees effective August 23, 2024, the plans 
formulated is in compliance with the SEBI ESOP Regulations. Source of shares are primary in nature, since the Bank has been 
issuing new equity shares upon exercise of options.
Options under the aforesaid plan are granted for a term of 7 years (from the date of grant) and are settled with equity shares 
being allotted to the beneficiary upon exercise.
Plans
Exercise period
RSU - 2024
25% will vest at the end of 12, 24, 36, 42 months from the Grant date
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
483
483
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Summary of movement of options granted under the Bank’s stock option plans is set out below
As of March 31, 2025:
Number of Options
Weighted average exercise price
PESOP
JESOP
RSU
PESOP
JESOP
RSU
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
281,631,810
8,250,047
-
21.94
104.83
-
Granted during the year
121,301,297
2,330,000
19,384,000
22.40
20.33
2
Exercised during the year
26,406,398
65,000
-
13.77
12.97
-
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
52,964,134
1,490,797
1,797,000
29.34
157.98
2
Outstanding at the end of the year
323,562,575
9,024,250
17,587,000
21.84
57.22
2
Exercisable
108,547,901
3,409,250
-
28.04
92.49
-
As of March 31, 2024:
Number of Options
Weighted average exercise price
PESOP
JESOP
PESOP
JESOP
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
215,329,609
7,595,897
25.08
134.90
Granted during the year
131,126,099
2,350,000
16.14
19.05
Exercised during the year
13,106,772
-
13.12
-
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
51,717,126
1,695,850
22.53
120.67
Outstanding at the end of the year
281,631,810
8,250,047
21.94
104.83
Exercisable at the end of the year
64,266,236
4,160,047
19.33
140.93
The options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the period. Weighted average share price the Bank’s publicly traded 
equity shares as per BSE Ltd price volume data during the year ended March 31, 2025 was ` 21.71 per share (Previous year: 
` 19.30 per share)
Range of exercise price wise summary of options outstanding at March 31, 2025
Range of exercise price
Number of options outstanding
Weighted average remaining contractual  
life (in years)
PESOP
JESOP
RSU
PESOP
JESOP
RSU
Less than ` 25
317,064,511
5,450,000
17,587,000
7.84
5.23
6.49
` 25 to ` 100
-
860,000
-
-
0.61
-
` 100 to ` 250
2,097,880
2,124,250
-
0.00
0.24
-
` 250 to ` 400
4,400,184
590,000
-
0.05
0.16
-
Range of exercise price wise summary of options outstanding at March 31, 2024:
Range of exercise price
Number of options outstanding
Weighted average remaining 
contractual life (in years)
PESOP
JESOP
PESOP
JESOP
Less than ` 25
271,427,230
3,800,000
8.09
4.14
` 25 to ` 100
-
577,900
-
0.37
` 100 to ` 250
4,385,330
3,059,647
0.02
0.67
` 250 to ` 400
5,819,250
812,500
0.09
0.32
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
484
YES BANK LIMITED
The Bank has changed its accounting policy from the intrinsic value method to the fair value method for all share-linked 
instruments granted beginning from April 01, 2021. The Bank has adopted the fair value method based on Black- Scholes Pricing 
Model, for pricing and accounting of options. The fair value of the stock-based compensation is estimated on the grant date 
and is recognised under employee cost over the vesting period. As a result, ‘Employees cost’ for the year ended March 31, 2025 
is ` 675.76 million (Previous year: ` 312.56 million). The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year ended 
March 31, 2025 was ` 9.49 per option (Previous year: ` 4.07 per option).
If the Bank had adopted the Fair Value for all the options granted till March 31, 2021, the net profit after tax would have been 
lower by ` 250.98 million (Previous year: lower by ` 220.82 million), the basic earnings per share would have been 0.76 per share 
(previous year: ` 0.43) instead 0.77 per share (previous year: 0.44 per share), and diluted earnings per share would have been 
0.76 per share (previous year: 0.42 per share) instead of 0.77 per share (previous year: 0.43 per share) due to the impact of the 
aforesaid mentioned difference between the intrinsic value of the options and fair value of the options.
The following inputs and assumptions have been used for computation of the fair value based on method of Black- Scholes 
Pricing Model for the options granted during the year:
Inputs
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Risk free interest rate
6.72%-7.32%
7.04%- 7.42%
Expected life
1.5 yrs- 7.5 yrs
1.5 yrs-7.5 yrs
Expected volatility
26.67% - 39.42%
24.61%-47.07%
Expected dividend yield
0%
1.10%
Risk free interest rates over the expected life of the option are based on yield of the government securities in effect at the time 
of the grant. The expected life of an option is estimated based on the vesting period plus expected exercise period after vesting 
based on exercise behavior of the employees who receive the option. Expected exercise behavior is estimated based on the 
historical stock option exercise pattern of the Bank. Expected volatility during the estimated expected life of the option is based 
on historical volatility determined based on observed market prices of the Bank’s publicly traded equity shares. Expected dividend 
yield during the estimated expected life of the option are based on industry average.
YES Securities India Ltd. (‘YSIL’)
The employees of YSIL are granted stock options of the YES Securities India Ltd. as below:
-	
Employee Stock Option Scheme 2018
-	
Performance Employee Stock Option Scheme 2020
The schemes include provisions for grant of options to eligible employees of the YSIL. All the aforesaid schemes have been 
approved by the Board Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors.
Options under all the aforesaid plans are granted for a term of 42 months (inclusive of the vesting period) and are settled with 
equity shares being allotted to the beneficiary upon exercise.
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
485
485
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A summary of the status of the YSIL stock option plans granted to employees as on 31 March 2025 is set out below:
PESOP:
Particulars
Lot 1
Lot 2
Lot 3
Lot 4
Lot 5
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
1,435,000
2,228,125
-
-
-
Granted during the year
-
-
1,245,000
2,400,000
274,000
Exercised during the year
487,500
363,750
-
-
-
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
58,750
164,375
-
92,000
-
Options outstanding at the end of the year
888,750
1,700,000
1,245,000
2,308,000
274,000
Weighted average exercise price
12.43
38.55
26.43
26.43
26.43
JESOP:
Particulars
Lot 1
Lot 2
Lot 3
Lot 4
Lot 5
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
-
100,000
-
-
-
Granted during the year
-
-
10,000
-
-
Exercised during the year
-
-
-
-
-
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
-
100,000
-
-
-
Options outstanding at the end of the year
-
-
10,000
-
-
Weighted average exercise price
-
38.55
26.43
-
-
A summary of the status of the YSIL stock option plans granted to employees as on 31 March 2024 is set out below:
PESOP:
Particulars
Lot 1
Lot 2
Lot 3
Lot 4
Lot 5
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
1,760,000
2,637,500
-
-
-
Granted during the year
-
-
-
-
-
Exercised during the year
-
-
-
-
-
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
325,000
409,375
-
-
-
Options outstanding at the end of the year
1,435,000
2,228,125
-
-
-
Weighted average exercise price
12.43
38.55
-
-
-
JESOP:
Particulars
Lot 1
Lot 2
Lot 3
Lot 4
Lot 5
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
-
225,000
-
-
-
Granted during the year
-
-
-
-
-
Exercised during the year
-
-
-
-
-
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
-
125,000
-
-
-
Options outstanding at the end of the year
-
100,000
-
-
-
Weighted average exercise price
-
38.55
-
-
-
YSIL has issued ESOP’s at fair value as on issue date as per the discounted cashflow method. There is a net impact of ` 21.62 
million for the year ended March 31, 2025 (Previous year: net reversal of ` 0.44 million) on account of employee stock-based 
compensation under ‘Employees cost’ for the YSIL.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
486
YES BANK LIMITED
17.6.13 Deferred Taxation
The deferred tax asset of ` 76,568.21 million as at March 31, 2025 and ` 85,630.92 million as at March 31, 2024, is included 
under other assets and the corresponding credits have been taken to the profit and loss account.
The components that give rise to the deferred tax asset included in the balance sheet are as follows:
(` in million)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation
 (372.94)
 218.10 
Provision for gratuity and unutilized leave 
 538.95
 406.32 
Provision for Non-Performing Assets
 8,581.16
 7,094.56 
Amortization of premium on HTM securities
 19.71
 19.71 
Business Loss
 52,230.41
 60,701.36 
Unabsorbed Depreciation
 1,893.64
 1,988.55 
Provision for standard advances 
 3,713.55
 4,164.13 
Other Provisions
 9,963.73
 11,038.18 
Total
 76,568.21
 85,630.92 
The Group has a total deferred tax asset of ` 76,568.21 as at March 31, 2025 (Previous year: ` 85,630.92 million). During the 
year ended March 31, 2025, the Group has reported net consolidated profit of ` 24,464.93 million (Previous year: ` 12,852.02 
million). The Bank continues to carry the aforesaid deferred tax asset in its Balance Sheet in terms of Accounting Standard 22 
(Accounting for Taxes on Income). The realizability of the deferred tax assets has been assessed by the management of the Bank. 
The Bank has opted to exercise the option permitted under section 115BAA of the Income-tax Act, 1961. Accordingly, the Bank 
has recognised Provision for Income Tax basis the rate prescribed in the aforesaid section.
17.6.14 Dues to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 which came into force from October 2, 2006, certain 
disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and Medium enterprises. There have been ` 283.43 million (Previous 
year ` 1,527.55 million) worth bills which were paid with delays to micro and small enterprises. There have been ` 3.71 million 
worth bills remaining unpaid with delays as at March 31, 2025 (Previous year: ` 28.63 million). Interest accrued and remaining 
unpaid amounting to ` 0.28 million (Previous year ` 1.26 million) on bills remaining unpaid with delays. There has been no demand 
of interest on these payments.
17.6.15 Provision for Long Term contracts
The Group has a process whereby periodically all long-term contracts (including derivative contracts) are assessed for material 
foreseeable losses. At the year end, the Group has reviewed and recorded adequate provision as required under any law / 
accounting standards for material foreseeable losses on such long-term contracts (including derivative contracts) in the books of 
account and disclosed the same under the relevant notes in the financial statements.
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
487
487
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.6.16 Credit / Debit card reward points
Provision for credit card and debit card reward points for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Opening provision
653.17
643.67
Provision made during the year
519.72
444.68
Utilised/Write-back of provision
(296.07)
 (435.18)
Closing provision
876.82
653.17
The valuation of credit card and debit card reward points is based on actuarial valuation obtained from an independent actuary.
17.6.17 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
The details of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities carried out in line with the CSR Policy of the Bank are given below:
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
(a)
Gross amount required to be spent by the Bank
251.90
Nil
(b)
Amount approved by the Board to be spent
252.00
100.00
(c)
Amount spent during the year on:
(i)	
Construction / acquisition of any asset
Nil
Nil
(ii) 	
On purposes other than (i) above
230.00
100.00
(d)
Amount recognised as expense in the Profit and Loss account on CSR related 
activities
252.00
Nil
(e)
Where a provision is made with respect to a liability incurred by entering into a 
contractual obligation, the movements in the provision
Nil
Nil
(f)
Details of related party transactions in relation to CSR expenditure as per AS 18:
219.00
100.00
Of the amount spent as per (c) above, contribution made to YES Foundation for CSR 
activities
(g)
(i)	
Movement in amount remained unspent:
	
Opening balance
Nil
Nil
	
Add: Amount required to be spent during the year
Nil
Nil
	
Less: Amount spent during the year
Nil
Nil
	
Less: Amount deposited in Specified Fund of Sch. VII within 6 months
Nil
Nil
	
Closing balance
Nil
Nil
(ii)	
Movement in amount spent in excess of the requirements:
	
Amount available for set off from preceding year
100.00
Nil
	
Less: Amount required to be spent during the year
252.00
Nil
	
Add: Amount spent during the year
230.00
100.00
	
Amount available for set off carried forward to the next year
78.00
100.00
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
488
YES BANK LIMITED
YES Securities India Ltd. (‘YSIL’)
Amount required to be spent on CSR during the year was ` 3.9 million (Previous year: 0.50 million). Amount spent towards CSR 
during the year and recognised as expense in the Profit and Loss account on CSR related activities is ` 4.5 million (Previous year: 
` 1.00 million).
17.6.18 Tier I and Tier II Capital
During the year ended March 31, 2025 and year ended March 31, 2024, the Bank has not issued any Tier I or Tier II instruments. 
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has not repaid any Tier I or Tier II instruments (Previous Year: NIL). During the 
year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has not repaid any Additional Tier-I capital (Previous year repaid Additional Tier-I capital of 
` 2,800.0 million, however the same was not considered for regulatory capital for the year ended March 31, 2024 basis guidance 
received from RBI).
Write Down of AT1 Bonds
On March 5, 2020, Central Government in terms of Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (“BR Act”) imposed moratorium 
on the Bank. Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) in exercise of its powers conferred under Section 36ACA of the BR Act superseded the 
then Board of Directors and appointed an Administrator to manage the affairs of the Bank w.e.f. March 5, 2020. Subsequently on 
March 13, 2020, through the ‘YES Bank Limited Reconstruction Scheme, 2020’ (“the Yes Bank Reconstruction Scheme”), the 
relevant authorities (i.e., Central Government in consultation with RBI) decided to “reconstitute” the Bank. Further, in terms of the 
Yes Bank Reconstruction Scheme, the Administrator was to continue in office until the Board of Directors mentioned in the Yes 
Bank Reconstruction Scheme assumed office, i.e., on March 26, 2020.
In light of the above, the Administrator, on behalf of the Bank, consequent to the invocation of Section 45 of the BR Act, and 
to protect the interest of the Bank and its depositors, was constrained to write down (` 84,150 million) two tranches of the 
Additional Tier 1 Bonds (“AT-1 Bonds”) issued in 2016 and 2017, in compliance with the contractual covenants and applicable RBI 
guidelines, on March 14, 2020.
Aggrieved by the said write down of AT-1 Bonds, AT-1 Bondholders filed various writ petition(s), civil suit(s), criminal and consumer 
complaint(s) across India challenging the decision of the Bank to write down the AT-1 Bonds since 2020. The same are pending 
adjudication, save and except the batch of writ petition(s) filed before the Hon’ble Bombay High Court and one writ petition before 
the Hon’ble Madras High Court (as mentioned below).
Judgment dated September 30, 2020 of the Hon’ble Madras High Court (“MHC”):
The RBI Master Circular on Basel III Capital Regulations, in so far as it relates to issuance and write down of AT-1 Bonds, was 
challenged before the Division Bench of the Hon’ble MHC in the Writ Petition titled Piyush Bokaria Vs. Reserve Bank of India and 
Ors., (being W.P. (Civil) 12586 of 2020). The Hon’ble MHC vide its judgment dated September 30, 2020 upheld the validity of the 
RBI Master Circular in relation to the AT-1 Bonds. Additionally, with respect to the aspect of writing down of AT-1 Bonds, the 
Hon’ble MHC observed that one of the features of AT-1 Bonds is that they can be written-down before the equity shares bear 
losses and considering that the Petitioners purchased the AT -1 Bonds in the secondary market, they cannot claim to be ignorant 
of the terms and conditions thereof. The Hon’ble MHC also noted the loss absorbency feature of the AT-1 Bonds and dismissed 
the Writ Petition.
Judgment dated January 20, 2023 of the Hon’ble Bombay High Court (“BHC”):
Multiple writ petition(s) were filed before the Hon’ble BHC challenging the write down of AT-1 Bonds and the stock exchange 
intimation dated March 14, 2020 made in relation to the write down. The Hon’ble BHC vide its judgment dated January 20, 2023 
set aside the stock exchange intimation and decision of the Bank to write down the AT-1 Bonds (“Judgment”). At the request of 
the Bank, the Hon’ble BHC stayed the order for a period of 6 (six) weeks.
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
489
489
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Proceedings before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India (“Supreme Court”):
Aggrieved by the Judgment of the Hon’ble BHC, the Bank, the RBI and the Central Government have filed separate Special Leave 
Petition(s) (“SLPs”) before the Hon’ble Supreme Court challenging the Judgement of the Hon’ble BHC. On March 3, 2023, the 
Hon’ble Supreme Court issued notice and extended the stay granted by the Hon’ble BHC, subject to the final orders of the Hon’ble 
Supreme Court. The SLPs are pending hearing.
Given that the write down of the AT-1 Bonds was in accordance with the relevant regulations and as RBI and Central Government 
(“relevant authorities” in terms of the RBI Master Circular) have also filed SLPs challenging the Judgement of Hon’ble BHC, the 
Bank has estimated that there should not be any material financial impact of the matter under litigation. Upon final verdict of the 
Hon’ble Supreme Court, financial impact, if any, on the results and/or other financial information shall be accounted for in future 
reporting periods. The matter was last listed on February 19, 2025 wherein the Hon’ble Supreme Court was pleased to grant 
leave and is now tentatively scheduled for hearing on July 24, 2025.
Separately, Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) issued a Show Cause Notice dated October 28, 2020 to the Bank and 
other noticee(s) (ex-employees of the Bank) alleging violation of provisions of SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003. Thereafter, SEBI vide its order dated April 12, 2021 imposed penalty 
of ` 250 million on the Bank under Section 15 HA of Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 for the alleged mis-selling 
of AT-1 Bonds in the secondary market. SEBI also imposed penalties on other noticee(s). Aggrieved by the above-mentioned 
SEBI order, the Bank and other noticee(s) preferred separate Appeal(s) before the Hon’ble Securities Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai 
(“SAT”). SAT heard the Appeal(s) and the effect and operation of the SEBI order dated April 12, 2021 has been stayed. The said 
Appeal(s) are pending final hearing.
17.6.19	
Investor Education and Protection Fund
The unclaimed dividend amount due to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) during the year ended 
March 31, 2025 and the year ended March 31, 2024 has been transferred without any delay.
17.6.20	
Disclosure on borrowing and lending activities
The Bank, as part of its normal banking business, grants loans and advances, makes investments, provides guarantees to and 
accept deposits and borrowings from its customers, other entities and persons. These transactions are part of the Bank's normal 
banking business and are undertaken in accordance with the guidelines prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India.
Other than the transactions described above, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or 
share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank to or in any other persons or entities, including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries") with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified by or on behalf of the Bank (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or provide any guarantee, security or like 
on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
The Bank has also not received any fund from any persons or entities, including foreign entities (‘Funding Party’) with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Bank shall whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries") or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
490
YES BANK LIMITED
17.6.21 Description of contingent liabilities
Sr. 
No.
Contingent Liabilities
Brief
1.
Claims against the Group not 
acknowledged as debts 
The Group is a party to various legal and tax proceedings in the normal course of business. The Group 
does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a material adverse effect on the Group’s 
financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows.
2.
Liability on account of forward 
exchange and derivative 
contracts.
The Group enters into foreign exchange contracts, currency options, forward rate agreements, currency 
swaps and interest rate swaps with interbank participants and customers. Forward exchange contracts 
are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency at a future date at the contracted rate. Currency swaps 
are commitments to exchange cash flows by way of interest/principal in one currency against another, 
based on predetermined rates. Interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange fixed and floating 
interest rate cash flows. The notional amounts of financial instruments of such foreign exchange 
contracts and derivatives provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the balance 
sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value 
of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Group’s exposure to credit or price risks. The 
derivative instruments become favorable (assets) or unfavorable (liabilities) as a result of fluctuations in 
market rates or prices relative to their terms. The aggregate contractual or notional amount of derivative 
financial instruments on hand, the extent to which instruments are favorable or unfavorable and thus 
the aggregate fair values of derivative financial assets and liabilities can fluctuate significantly.
3.
Guarantees given on behalf 
of constituents, acceptances, 
endorsements and other 
obligations
As a part of its commercial banking activities the Bank issues documentary credit and guarantees on 
behalf of its customers. Documentary credits such as letters of credit enhance the credit standing of the 
customers of the Bank. Guarantees generally represent irrevocable assurances that the Bank will make 
payments in the event of the customer failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations.
4.
Other items for which the 
Group is contingently liable
Purchase of securities pending settlement, capital commitments, amount deposited with RBI under 
Depositor Education Awareness Fund (DEAF), bill re-discounting, Foreign Exchange Contracts (Tom & 
Spot), Custodian operations, undrawn partial credit enhancement facilities, When Issued (WI) securities 
Refer Schedule 12 for amounts relating to contingent liability
17.6.22 Divergence in Asset Classification and Provisioning for NPAs
In terms of the RBI circular no. DOR.ACC.REC.No.74/21.04.018/2022-23 dated October 11, 2022 banks are required to disclose 
the divergences in asset classification and provisioning consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory process in their notes to accounts 
to the financial statements, wherever either or both of the following conditions are satisfied: (a) the additional provisioning for 
NPAs assessed by RBI exceeds 5 per cent of the reported profit before provisions and contingencies for the reference period and 
(b) the additional Gross NPAs identified by RBI exceed 5 per cent of the reported incremental Gross NPAs for the reference period.
Based on the condition mentioned in RBI circular, no disclosure on divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs is 
required with respect to RBI’s supervisory process for FY2024 and FY2023.
17.6.23 Other income/expenditure
Miscellaneous income includes issuance business income of ` 5,821.46 million (Previous year: ` 4,403.23 million) exceeding 1% 
of total income.
Other expenditure includes Loan sourcing fees and Collection charges of ` 9,719.79 million, IT related expenses of ` 9,634.70 
million, Professional Fees and Commission of ` 9,567.45 million and Issuance business expenses of ` 4,541.57 million exceeding 
1% of total income.
(During the previous year other expenditure includes Loan sourcing fees and Collection charges of ` 11,673.39 million, IT related 
expenses of ` 7,259.89 million, Professional Fees and Commission of ` 6,392.7 million, issuance business expense of ` 3,600.79 
million and PSLC of ` 3,452.12 exceeding 1% of total income).
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
491
491
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
PG 342-492
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.6.24 Additional disclosure
Additional statutory information disclosed in the separate financial statements of the Bank and subsidiary having no material 
bearing on the true and fair view of the consolidated financial statements and the information pertaining to the items which are 
not material have not been disclosed in the consolidated financial statement.
Prior period comparatives
Previous year’s figures have been regrouped where necessary to conform to current year classification. 
For G. M. Kapadia & Co.
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 104767W
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
YES BANK Limited
CIN: L65190MH2003PLC143249
Atul Shah 
Partner
Membership No: 039569
Rama Subramaniam Gandhi 
Chairman
(DIN: 03341633)
Sanjay Khemani 
Director
(DIN: 00072812)
Prashant Kumar 
Managing Director & CEO
(DIN: 07562475)
For C N K & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants 
Firm's Registration No: 101961W/W100036
Suresh Agaskar
Partner 
Membership No: 110321
Rajan Pental
Executive Director 
(DIN: 08432870)
Manish Jain
Executive Director
(DIN: 10774800)
Niranjan Banodkar
Chief Financial Officer
Mumbai 
April 19, 2025
Sanjay Abhyankar
Company Secretary
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
492
YES BANK LIMITED
FORM AOC -1
Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries/associate companies/joint 
ventures
Part “A”: Subsidiaries
 (amt in ` '000) 
1
Sl. No.
2
Name of the subsidiary
 YES Securities (India) Limited 
3
Reporting period for the subsidiary concerned, if different from the holding company’s reporting period
 NA 
4
Reporting currency and Exchange rate as on the last date of the relevant Financial year in the case of 
foreign subsidiaries
 NA 
5
Share capital
 1,240,900 
6
Reserves & surplus
 3,303,000 
7
Total assets
 12,718,457 
8
Total Liabilities
 8,174,600 
9
Investments
 189,700 
10
Turnover
 3,405,330 
11
Profit / (Loss) before taxation
 555,957 
12
Provision for taxation
 148,543 
13
Profit / (Loss) after taxation
 407,415 
14
Proposed Dividend
 - 
15
% of shareholding
99.28%
1. 	
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations- Nil	
2. 	
Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year- Nil	
Part “B”: Associates and Joint Ventures
Statement pursuant to section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 related to Associate Companies and Joint Ventures
Not Applicable
Please find below Basel III Disclosure as on Mar 31, 2025.
DISCLOSURES UNDER BASEL III CAPITAL REGULATIONS – PILLAR III In accordance with RBI circular RBI/2022-23/12.DOR.CAP.
REC.3/21.06.201/2022-23 on ‘Basel III Capital Regulations’ read together with RBI circular DBR.No.BP.BC.80/21.06.201/2014-15 
dated March 31, 2015 on ‘Prudential Guidelines on Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards – Amendments’ requires banks to 
make applicable Pillar 3 disclosures including leverage ratio and liquidity coverage ratio on a consolidated basis under regulatory 
disclosure section. The Pillar III disclosures have not been subjected to review or audit by the statutory auditors. The Bank has 
made these disclosures which are available on its website at the following link. 
https://www.yesbank.in/footer/regulatory-policies/regulatory-disclosures-section
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE OPINION STATEMENT 
 
To the Directors of Yes Bank Limited (YBL), 
Holds Statement No.: BSIV 806794-2024-2025-1 
 
Introduction 
The British Standards Institution (BSI) has been engaged by Yes Bank Limited (YBL) to provide an 
independent reasonable assurance of the sustainability information (described in the “Scope”) included in 
the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) for the period April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 
(FY 2024-25). 
 
Scope 
The independent reasonable assurance covers sustainability information pertaining to BRSR Core, Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs) in accordance with Annexure I of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(SEBI) vide Circular number SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122, dated July 12, 2023. This 
sustainability information is included in the Bank’s BRSR for the period April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 (FY 
2024-25). BSI has performed a reasonable assurance engagement on whether the Bank’s disclosures in the 
BRSR Core are fairly presented in all material respects in accordance with the reporting criteria (refer table 
below).    
 
Sustainability 
information subject to 
reasonable assurance  
Period subject 
to assurance 
Reporting criteria 
BRSR Core  
(Refer Annexure I of SEBI 
vide Circular number 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-
2/P/CIR/2023/122, dated July 
12, 2023) 
April 1, 2024 to 
March 31, 2025 
• 
Regulation 34(2)(f) of SEBI’s Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements (SEBI LODR) 
• 
BRSR Core - Framework for assurance and ESG 
disclosures for value chain (SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-
2/P/CIR/2023/122, dated July 12, 2023) 
• 
Guidance Note for Business Responsibility & Sustainability 
Reporting Format issued by SEBI (Annexure II - 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD-2/P/CIR/2021/562) 
• 
BRSR-Core Reporting Standard, formulated by the 
Industry Standards Forum (SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-
1/P/CIR/2024/177, dated December 20, 2024) 
Assurance Statement
1
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
 
BRSR Core disclosures covered:  
The independent reasonable assurance covers the following BRSR Core KPIs which are included in the Bank’s 
BRSR report for FY 2024-25:  
1 GRI 2-5
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 000-000
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
493
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
(‘P’ represents the 9 Principles of the National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) / ‘E’ 
represents Essential Indicators, within each Principle in the BRSR Format)  
• 
Green-house gas (GHG) footprint – P6:E7 
• 
Water footprint – P6:E3 and P6:E4 
• 
Energy footprint – P6:E1 
• 
Embracing circularity – P6:E9 
• 
Enhancing employee wellbeing and safety – P3:E1(c) and P3:E11 
• 
Enabling gender diversity in business - P5:E3(b) and P5:E7 
• 
Enabling inclusive development - P8:E4 and P8:E5 
• 
Fairness in engaging with customers and suppliers - P9:E7 and P1:E8 
• 
Open-ness of business - P1:E9 
[The details of subject matters and their boundaries within the scope is described in Appendix A and Appendix 
B of this independent assurance opinion statement]. 
 
Opinion Statement 
We have conducted a reasonable assurance engagement covering the sustainability information pertaining 
to BRSR Core KPIs for the period April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 (FY 2024-25), covering disclosures on 
Green-house gas (GHG) footprint, water footprint, energy footprint, embracing circularity, enhancing 
employee wellbeing and safety, enabling gender diversity in business, enabling inclusive development, 
fairness in engaging with customers and suppliers, and open-ness of business.  
 
In our opinion, the accompanying sustainability information is fairly presented, in all material respects, in 
accordance with the reporting criteria stated above.  
 
Reasonable Assurance is based on a rigorous evaluation of sufficient and appropriate evidence, that reduces the risk of 
material misstatements to an acceptably low level, to support a positive form of conclusion. 
 
Methodology 
Our assurance engagement was carried out in accordance with ISAE3000 (Revised) assurance standard 
following the principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and 
professional behaviour. Our work was designed to gather evidence upon which to base our conclusion. We 
undertook the following activities: 
• 
A top-level review of issues raised by external parties that could be relevant to YBL policies, to confirm 
the appropriateness of statements made in the report 
• 
Discussion with managers and staff on YBL’s approach to stakeholder engagement. However, we had 
no direct contact with external stakeholders 
• 
Interviews with staff involved in sustainability management, BRSR report preparation, provision of data 
& information, implementation of controls, etc 
• 
Document review of relevant systems, policies, controls and procedures where available 
494
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
• 
Review of key organizational developments and review of the findings of internal audits 
• 
Review of supporting evidence for claims made in the reports 
• 
Visit of the 8 major offices of YBL to confirm the data collection processes, record management practices, 
and check evidence for BRSR Core KPIs physically 
• 
A sample-based assessment of the reliability and quality of information covered as part of the BRSR Core 
KPIs with samples considered based on criticality of data points  
 
Responsibility 
YBL is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the sustainability information described in the 
“Scope” above in accordance with the agreed criteria. BSI is responsible for providing an independent 
assurance opinion statement to stakeholders of YBL, giving our professional opinion based on the scope and 
methodology described. 
 
Independence, Quality Control and Competence 
BSI is independent to YBL and has no financial interest in the operation of YBL other than for the assurance 
of the sustainability statements contained in the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report. This 
independent assurance opinion statement has been prepared for the stakeholders of YBL only for the 
purposes of verifying its statements relating to BRSR Core (Annexure I) as notified by SEBI vide Circular 
number SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122, dated July 12, 2023), more particularly described in the 
Scope above. This independent assurance opinion statement is prepared based on review by BSI, of 
information presented to it by YBL. In making this independent assurance opinion statement, BSI has 
assumed that all information provided to it by YBL is true, accurate and complete. BSI accepts no liability to 
any third party who places reliance on this statement. BSI applies its own management standards and 
compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021-1:2015 and accordingly maintains 
a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding 
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements. BSI is a leading global standards and assessment body founded in 1901. The BSI assurance 
team that conducted the assurance has extensive experience in conducting assurance & verification over 
environmental, social & governance (ESG), and GRI Standards 2021, AA1000AS, ISO10002, ISO 14001, ISO 
45001, ISO 14064, ISO 14068, ISO 50001, and ISO 9001, etc. The assurance is carried out in line with the 
BSI Fair Trading Code of Practice. 
 
 
Issue Date: 21-07-2025 
For and on behalf of BSI: 
 
Sabyasachi Ghosh 
 
 
 
 
 
                  Theuns Kotze 
   Lead Assurer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Managing Director - BSI India 
 
 
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 000-000
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
495
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
 
Appendix A: BRSR Attributes  
 
BRSR KPI 
Type of 
Assurance  
Value 
 
 
 
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment 
Attribute: Green-house gas (GHG) footprint 
 
 
 
P6:E7 
Total Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 
Reasonable 
4,585.69 
Total Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 
Reasonable 
29,408.03 
GHG emission intensity (Scope 1 +2) (Total tCO2e / Revenue from 
operations in ₹ crore) 
Reasonable 
 
0.92 
GHG emission intensity (Scope 1 +2) (Total tCO2e / Total Revenue 
from operations adjusted for PPP, in USD million) 
Reasonable 
 
1.91 
GHG emission intensity (Scope 1 +2) (Total tCO2e / Full-Time 
Employee) 
Reasonable 
 
1.18 
 
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment 
Attribute: Water footprint 
 
 
P6:E3 
Total volume of water withdrawal (KL) 
Reasonable 
317,867.20 
Total volume of water consumption (KL) 
Reasonable 
3,17,867.20 
Water consumption intensity (KL / Revenue from operations in ₹ 
crore) 
Reasonable 
8.65 
Water consumption intensity (KL / Total Revenue from operations 
adjusted for PPP, in USD million) 
Reasonable 
17.87 
Water consumption intensity (KL / Full-Time Employee) 
Reasonable 
11.08 
P6:E4 
Water discharge by destination & levels of Treatment 
Reasonable 
1,17,042.40 
 
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment 
Attribute: Energy footprint 
496
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
BRSR KPI 
Type of 
Assurance  
Value 
 
 
 
 
 
P6:E1 
Total energy consumed (from renewable and non-renewable 
sources) (Gigajoules) 
Reasonable 
192,043.08 
% of Energy consumed from renewable sources 
Reasonable 
19.20% 
Energy intensity (Gigajoules / Revenue from operations in ₹ crore) 
Reasonable 
5.23 
Energy intensity (Gigajoules / Revenue from operations in adjusted 
for PPP, in USD million) 
Reasonable 
10.80 
Energy intensity (Gigajoules / Full-Time Employee) 
Reasonable 
6.69 
 
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment 
Attribute: Embracing circularity - details related to waste management by the entity 
 
 
 
 
 
P6:E9 
Plastic waste (MT) 
E-waste (MT) 
Biomedical waste (MT)  
Construction & Demolition waste (MT)  
Battery waste (MT) 
Radioactive waste (MT) 
Other hazardous waste (MT)  
Other non-hazardous waste (MT) 
 
 
 
 
Reasonable 
 
4.74 
46.05 
0.017 
0 
43.55 
0 
0.57 
388.95 
Total waste generated (MT) 
Reasonable 
483.87 
Waste intensity (MT / Revenue from operations in ₹ crore) 
Reasonable 
0.0132 
Waste intensity (MT / Total Revenue from operations adjusted for 
PPP, in USD million) 
Reasonable 
0.0272 
Waste intensity (MT / Full-Time Employee) 
Reasonable 
0.017 
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations (in metric tonnes) 
(i) Recycled 
Reasonable 
141.32 
(ii) Re-used 
Reasonable 
3.76 
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 000-000
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
497
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
BRSR KPI 
Type of 
Assurance  
Value 
 
 
 
(iii) Other recovery operations 
Reasonable 
0 
Total 
Reasonable 
145.08 
Waste recovered through recycling, reusing or recovery –Intensity 
Reasonable 
0.30 
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes) 
(i) Incineration 
Reasonable 
4.57 
(ii) Landfilling 
Reasonable 
13.54 
(iii) Other disposal operations 
Reasonable 
320.68 
Total 
Reasonable 
338.79 
Waste disposed by nature of disposal –Intensity 
Reasonable 
0.70 
 
PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in 
their value chains 
Attribute: Enhancing Employee Wellbeing and Safety 
P3:E1 (c) 
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers 
(cost incurred on wellbeing measures as a % of total revenue of the 
company) 
 
Reasonable 
 
0.22% 
P3:E11 
Details of safety related incidents for employees and workers 
including contract-workforce  
• 
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person hours 
worked) 
• 
Total recordable work-related injuries 
• 
No. of fatalities 
• 
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities) 
 
 
 
Reasonable 
 
 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
 
 
PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights 
Attribute: Enabling Gender Diversity in Business 
P5:E3 (b) 
Gross wages paid to females as % of wages paid by the entity 
Reasonable 
17.63% 
498
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
BRSR KPI 
Type of 
Assurance  
Value 
 
 
 
 
P5:E7 
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH) 
 
 
 
Reasonable 
 
30 
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers 
0.47% 
Complaints on POSH upheld 
15 
 
PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development 
Attribute: Enabling Inclusive Development 
P8:E4 
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced 
from Suppliers:  
• 
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers &  
• 
Directly from within India 
 
 
Reasonable 
 
 
12.70% 
100% 
P8:E5 
Job creation in smaller towns – Wages paid to persons employed in 
smaller towns (permanent or non-permanent/ on contract) as % of 
total wage cost 
• 
Rural 
• 
Semi-urban 
• 
Urban 
• 
Metropolitan  
 
 
 
Reasonable 
 
 
1.18% 
4.65% 
20.10% 
74.07% 
 
PRINCIPLE 9 - Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible 
manner 
Attribute: Fairness in Engaging with Customers and Suppliers 
P9:E7 
Instances involving loss / breach of data of customers as a 
percentage of total data breaches or cyber security events 
Reasonable 
NIL 
 
PRINCIPLE 1 - Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that 
 is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable 
Attribute: Fairness in Engaging with Customers and Suppliers 
P1:E8 
Number of days of accounts payable 
Reasonable 
16 
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 000-000
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
499
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
BRSR KPI 
Type of 
Assurance  
Value 
 
 
 
Attribute: Open-ness of business  
 
 
 
P1:E9 
 
Concentration of purchases 
a. Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases 
b. Number of trading houses where purchases are made from 
c. Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total purchases 
from trading houses 
 
 
Reasonable 
 
5.20% 
15 
99.58% 
Concentration of sales 
Reasonable 
Not Applicable 
Share of RPTs (as respective percentage) in –  
• 
Purchases  
• 
Sales  
• 
Loans & advances  
• 
Investments 
 
 
Reasonable 
 
0.12% 
NIL 
0.03% 
0.47% 
 
 
 
 
500
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
Appendix B:  
List of locations which form the boundaries of the sustainability information pertaining to “Green-house gas 
(GHG) footprint, water footprint, energy footprint, embracing circularity, enhancing employee wellbeing and 
safety, enabling gender diversity in business, enabling inclusive development, fairness in engaging with 
customers and suppliers, open-ness of business”. 
 
S.No 
Location 
Type 
1 
National 
• 8 Major Offices (including the Bank’s Registered Office, YES BANK House, Mumbai) 
and 24 other Offices 
• 1,255 branches 
• 1 IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) in Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT) 
• 1,331 ATMs / CRMs / BNAs  
 
2 
International 
• 1 Representative office in Abu Dhabi 
 
 
 
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 000-000
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
501
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE OPINION STATEMENT 
 
To the Directors of Yes Bank Limited (YBL), 
Holds Statement No.: BSIV 806794-2024-2025-2 
 
Introduction 
The British Standards Institution (BSI) has been engaged by Yes Bank Limited (YBL) to provide an 
independent limited assurance of select sustainability information (described in the “Scope”), included in the 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) for the period April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 (FY 
2024-25). 
 
Scope 
The scope of engagement agreed upon with YBL covers select (non-core) sustainability information 
pertaining to the BRSR for the period April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 (FY 2024-25) in accordance with 
Annexure II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) vide Circular number SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122, dated July 12, 2023. BSI has performed a limited assurance engagement on whether 
the select (non-core) sustainability information in the BRSR, is fairly presented in all material respects in 
accordance with the reporting criteria (refer table below). 
 
Sustainability 
information subject to 
limited assurance  
Period subject to 
assurance 
Reporting criteria 
Select non-core 
sustainability disclosures as 
per BRSR Format  
(Refer Annexure II of SEBI 
vide Circular number 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-
2/P/CIR/2023/122, dated 
July 12, 2023) 
 
April 1, 2024 to 
March 31, 2025 
• 
Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (SEBI) Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements (SEBI LODR) 
• 
BRSR Core - Framework for assurance and ESG 
disclosures for value chain (SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-
2/P/CIR/2023/122, dated July 12, 2023) 
• 
Guidance Note for Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting Format issued by SEBI 
(Annexure II - SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD-2/P/CIR/2021/562) 
• 
BRSR-Core Reporting Standard, formulated by the 
Industry Standards Forum (SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-
1/P/CIR/2024/177, dated December 20, 2024) 
 
Select non-core BRSR disclosures covered:  
The independent limited assurance covers the following select (non-core) sustainability information which 
is included in the Bank’s BRSR report for FY 2024-25:  
502
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
(‘P’ represents the 9 Principles of the National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) / ‘E’ represents 
Essential Indicators and ‘L’ represents Leadership Indicators, within each Principle in the BRSR Format) 
• 
Section A: General Disclosures  
o Employees - Q20, Q21, and Q22 
• 
Section C: Principle wise Performance Disclosure  
o P1:L1 
o P3:E1(a), P3:E2, P3:E5, P3:E8, P3:E9, P3:E14 and P3:L5 
o P5:E1, P5:E2, P5:E3(a), P5:E6, P5:E10 and P5:L4 
o P6:E6, P6:L2 and P6:L7 
o P8:L2 and P8:L6 
[The details of subject matters and their boundaries within the scope is described in Appendix A and Appendix B in this 
independent assurance opinion statement]. 
 
Opinion Statement 
We have conducted a limited assurance engagement covering the sustainability information described in the 
“Scope”, which are included in the BRSR for the period April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 (FY 2024-25).  
 
Based on the processes and procedures conducted as per limited assurance, there is no evidence that the 
accompanying sustainability information is not materially correct and is not fairly represented in accordance 
with the reporting criteria stated above.  
 
The processes in a limited assurance engagement differ from and are less in extent than in a reasonable assurance 
engagement. The level of assurance attained in a limited assurance engagement is thus significantly lower than the 
assurance attained as compared with the assurance attained as part of a reasonable assurance engagement.       
 
Methodology 
Our assurance engagement was carried out in accordance with ISAE3000 (Revised) assurance standard 
following the principles of “Integrity, Objectivity, Professional competence and due care, Confidentiality and 
Professional behaviour”. Our work was designed to gather evidence on which to base our conclusion.  We 
undertook the following activities: 
 
• 
A top-level review of issues raised by external parties that could be relevant to YBL policies to confirm 
the appropriateness of statements made in the report 
• 
Discussion with managers and staff on YBL approach to stakeholder engagement. However, we had no 
direct contact with external stakeholders 
• 
Interviews with staff involved in sustainability management, BRSR report preparation, provision of data 
& information, implementation of controls, etc 
• 
Document review of relevant systems, policies, controls and procedures where available 
• 
Review of supporting evidence for claims made in the report 
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 000-000
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
503
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
• 
Visit of the major offices of YBL to confirm the data collection processes, record management practices, 
and check evidence of BRSR related information, physically 
 
Responsibility 
YBL is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the sustainability information described in the 
“Scope” above in accordance with the agreed criteria. BSI is responsible for providing an independent 
assurance opinion statement to stakeholders of YBL, giving our professional opinion based on the scope and 
methodology described. 
 
Independence, Quality Control and Competence 
BSI is independent to YBL and has no financial interest in the operation of YBL other than for the assurance 
of the sustainability statements contained in the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report. 
 
This independent assurance opinion statement has been prepared for the stakeholders of YBL for the 
purposes of verifying its statements relating to BRSR (Annexure II) as notified by SEBI vide Circular number 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122, dated July 12, 2023), and more particularly described in the 
Scope above.  
 
This independent assurance opinion statement is prepared based on a review by BSI, of information 
presented to it by YBL. In making this independent assurance opinion statement, BSI has assumed that all 
information provided to it by YBL is true, accurate and complete. BSI accepts no liability to any third party 
who places reliance on this statement. 
 
BSI applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with 
ISO/IEC 17021-1:2015 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including 
documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards 
and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
 
BSI is a leading global standards and assessment body founded in 1901. The BSI assurance team that 
conducted the assurance has extensive experience in conducting assurance & verification on environmental, 
social & governance (ESG) topics, and GRI 2021, AA1000AS, ISO 10002, ISO 14001, ISO 45001, ISO 14064, 
ISO 14068, ISO 50001, SA8000, ISO 9001, etc. The assurance is carried out in line with the BSI Fair Trading 
Code of Practice. 
 
Issue Date: 21-07-2025 
For and on behalf of BSI: 
 
Sabyasachi Ghosh 
 
 
 
 
 
                           Theuns Kotze 
   Lead Assurer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       Managing Director - BSI India 
 
504
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
 
Appendix A: subject matters within the scope – BRSR Annexure II 
BRSR  
Type of 
Assurance  
Section A: General disclosures --- IV – Employees 
 
20. Details as at the end of Financial Year:  
a. Employees and workers (including differently abled)      
b. Differently abled Employees and workers 
21. Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women  
22. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers  
 
Limited 
 
 
Section C: Principle wise Performance Disclosure ---  
PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent 
and Accountable 
P1:L1 - Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year 
Limited 
 
 
PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their 
value chains 
 
P3:E1 - a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees 
Limited 
P3:E2 - Details of retirement benefits  
Limited 
P3:E5 - Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave  
Limited 
P3:E8 - Details of training given to employees and workers  
Limited 
P3:E9 - Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker  
Limited 
P3:E14 - Assessments for the year 
Limited 
P3:L5 – Details on Assessment of Value Chain Partners 
Limited 
 
 
PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights 
P5:E1 - Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity 
Limited 
P5:E2 - Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers  
Limited 
P5:E3 - Details of remuneration/salary/wages   
a. Median remuneration / wages     
Limited 
P5:E6 - Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers  
Limited 
P5:E10 - Assessments for the year 
 
P5:L4 – Details on Assessment of Value Chain Partners  
Limited 
 
 
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment 
P6:E6 - Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity  
Limited 
P6:L2 - Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity  
Limited 
P6:L7 - Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts. 
Limited 
 
 
PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development 
P8:L2 - Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as 
identified by government bodies 
Limited 
P8:L6 - Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects 
Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 000-000
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
505
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
Appendix B: List of locations which form the boundary of select (non-core) sustainability information 
pertaining to the BRSR 
 
S.NO Location 
Type 
1 
National 
• 8 Major Offices (including the Bank’s Registered Office, YES BANK House, Mumbai) 
and 24 other Offices 
• 1,255 branches 
• 1 IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) in Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT) 
• 1,331 ATMs / CRMs / BNAs  
 
2 
International 
• 1 Representative office in Abu Dhabi 
 
 
 
506
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE OPINION STATEMENT 
 
To the Directors of Yes Bank Limited (YBL), 
Holds Statement No.: BSIV 806794-2024-2025-3 
 
Introduction 
The British Standards Institution (BSI) has been engaged by Yes Bank Limited (YBL) to provide an 
independent limited assurance of select non-financial disclosures (described in the “Scope”), included in the 
Bank’s Integrated Annual Report for the period April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 (FY 2024-25). 
 
Scope 
The scope of engagement agreed upon with YBL covers select non-financial disclosures in the Bank’s 
Integrated Annual Report for the period April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 (FY 2024-25). BSI has performed 
an independent limited assurance engagement on whether the select non-financial disclosures in the Bank’s 
Integrated Annual Report for the period April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 (FY 2024-25), are fairly presented, 
in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria (refer table below): 
    
Sustainability information 
subject to limited assurance  
Period subject 
to assurance 
Reporting criteria 
Select non-financial disclosures in the 
Integrated Annual Report 
 
April 1, 2024 to 
March 31, 2025 
• 
GRI Standards 2021 
• 
Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework 2021 
 
Opinion Statement 
We have conducted a limited assurance engagement covering the sustainability information described in 
the “Scope” above for the period April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 (FY 2024-25). 
 
In our opinion, the accompanying sustainability information is fairly presented, in all material respects, in 
accordance with the reporting criteria stated above.  
 
Based on the processes and procedures conducted as per limited assurance, there is no evidence that the 
information pertaining to the Bank’s economic, environmental, and people related performance, presented 
in the Integrated Annual Report for the period FY 2024-25 are not materially correct or are not fairly 
represented. 
 
The processes in a limited assurance engagement differ from and are less in extent than in a reasonable assurance 
engagement. The level of assurance attained in a limited assurance engagement is thus significantly lower than the 
assurance attained as compared with the assurance attained as part of a reasonable assurance engagement.   
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 000-000
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
507
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
 
Methodology 
Our assurance engagement was carried out in accordance with ISAE3000 (Revised) assurance standard 
following the principles of Integrity, Objectivity, Professional competence and due care, Confidentiality and 
Professional behaviour. 
 
Our work was designed to gather evidence on which to base our conclusion. We undertook the following 
activities: 
 
• 
A top-level review of issues raised by external parties that could be relevant to YBL policies to confirm 
the appropriateness of statements made in the report 
• 
Discussion with managers and staff on YBL approach to stakeholder engagement. However, we had no 
direct contact with external stakeholders 
• 
Interviews with staff involved in sustainability management, Integrated Annual Report preparation, 
provision of data & information, implementation of controls, etc were carried out 
• 
Document review of relevant systems, policies, controls and procedures where available 
• 
Review of key organizational developments 
• 
Review of the findings of internal audits 
• 
Review of supporting evidence for claims made in the reports 
• 
Visit of the 8 major offices of YBL to confirm the data collection processes, record management practices, 
and check evidence for non-financial disclosures 
• 
A sample-based assessment of the reliability and quality of information of the company’s performance 
in accordance with the requirements of GRI Standards and <IR> Framework 
 
Conclusions 
 
GRI Standards  
YBL provided us with their self-declaration of compliance “In accordance with” the GRI Standards 2021. 
Based on our Assessment review, we confirm that the social responsibility and sustainable development 
disclosures in all 3 categories (Economy, Environment, People) are reported “In accordance with” the GRI 
Standards 2021.  
 
It is the responsibility of YBL corporate to notify GRI post publishing the report. 
In our professional opinion the self-declaration covers YBL’s social responsibility and sustainability issues. On 
the basis of the assessment undertaken, nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the report does 
not properly describe the following disclosed information –  
 
A. General disclosures (GRI 2: 2-1 up to 2-30) 
B. Materiality related disclosures (GRI 3-1 to GRI 3-3) 
C. The following material topic disclosures as identified & stipulated in the GRI Standards -  
• 
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 – 201-1, 201-2, 201-3 
• 
GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 – 202-1, 202-2 
• 
GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 – 204-1 
508
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
• 
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 – 205-1, 205-2, 205-3 
• 
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour 2016 – 206-1 
• 
GRI 302: Energy 2016 – 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5 
• 
GRI 305: Emissions 2016 – 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7 
• 
GRI 401: Employment 2016 – 401-1, 401-2, 401-3 
• 
GRI 402: Employment 2016 – 402-1 
• 
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 – 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 
• 
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity – 405-1, 405-2 
• 
GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 – 406-1 
• 
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 – 413-1, 413-2 
• 
GRI 417: Product Labeling 2016 – 417-1, 417-2, 417-3 
• 
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 – 418-1 
D. The following non-material topic disclosures from the GRI Standards -  
• 
GRI 207: Tax 2016 – 207-1, 207-2, 207-3, 207-4 
• 
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 – 303-1, 303-2, 303-3, 303-4, 303-5 
• 
GRI 306: Waste 2020 – 306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5 
• 
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 – 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-8, 403-9, 403-10 
 
Integrated Reporting <IR> framework 
YBL provided us with their self-declaration of compliance in accordance with the Integrated Reporting <IR> 
framework, 2021. 
 
Based on our Assessment review, we confirm that the information contained within the report adheres to the 
7 Guiding Principles of (A) Strategic focus and future orientation (B) Connectivity of information (C) 
Stakeholder relationships (D) Materiality (E) Conciseness (F) Reliability and completeness (G) Consistency 
and comparability. 
 
We confirm that the Integrated Report answers the questions posed within the 8 Content Elements of the 
<IR> framework viz. (A) Organizational overview and external environment (B) Governance (C) Business 
model (D) Risks and opportunities (E) Strategy and resource allocation (F) Performance (G) Outlook (H) Basis 
of preparation and presentation. 
 
The report includes content to the best possible ability about the - 
(i) 
processes through which the Value is created, preserved or eroded 
(ii) 
6 Capitals – financial, manufactured, intellectual, human, social & relationship, natural 
(iii) 
their complexity interdependencies & trade-offs,  
(iv) 
timeframes for short, medium and long-term 
(v) 
aggregation and disaggregation of data and information 
 
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 000-000
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
509
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
The YBL integrated annual report is found to be in accordance with the <IR> framework 2021. 
In our professional opinion the self-declaration covers YBL’s social responsibility and sustainability issues. 
Based on the assessment undertaken, nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the Report does 
not properly describe the disclosed information mandated under clauses 1.12, 1.17, 1.18, 1.20, 3.3, 3.6, 
3.10, 3.17, 3.36, 3.39, 3.54, 4.4, 4.8, 4.10, 4.24, 4.28, 4.31, 4.35 and 4.41 (as duly compiled & described 
within the Appendix-summary of requirements of the <IR> framework). 
 
Responsibility 
YBL is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the sustainability information described in the 
“Scope” above in accordance with the agreed criteria. BSI is responsible for providing an independent 
assurance opinion statement to stakeholders of YBL, giving our professional opinion based on the scope and 
methodology described. 
 
Independence, Quality Control and Competence 
BSI is independent to YBL and has no financial interest in the operation of YBL other than for the assurance 
of the sustainability statements contained in the Integrated Annual Report. This independent assurance 
opinion statement has been prepared for the stakeholders of YBL for the purposes of verifying its statements 
relating to the Scope mentioned above.  
 
This independent assurance opinion statement is prepared based on review by BSI, of information presented 
to it by YBL. In making this independent assurance opinion statement, BSI has assumed that all information 
provided to it by YBL is true, accurate and complete. BSI accepts no liability to any third party who places 
reliance on this statement. 
 
BSI applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with 
ISO/IEC 17021-1:2015 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including 
documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards 
and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
 
BSI is a leading global standards and assessment body founded in 1901. The BSI assurance team that 
conducted the assurance has extensive experience in conducting assurance & verification over 
environmental, social & governance (ESG), and GRI Standards 2021, AA1000AS, ISO10002, ISO 14001, ISO 
45001, ISO 14064, ISO 14068, ISO 50001, and ISO 9001, etc. The assurance is carried out in line with the 
BSI Fair Trading Code of Practice. 
 
Issue Date: 21-07-2025 
For and on behalf of BSI: 
 
Sabyasachi Ghosh 
 
 
 
 
 
                                 Theuns Kotze 
  Lead Assurer 
 
 
 
 
 
                        Managing Director BSI India 
510
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
Appendix A: List of locations which form the boundary of select non-financial disclosures in the Bank’s 
Integrated Annual Report 
 
S.No 
Location 
Description 
1 
National 
• 8 Major Offices (including the Bank’s Registered Office, YES BANK House, 
Mumbai) and 24 other Offices 
• 1,255 branches 
• 1 IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) in Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT) 
• 1,331 ATMs / CRMs / BNAs  
 
2 
International 
• 1 Representative office in Abu Dhabi 
 
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 000-000
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
511
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE OPINION STATEMENT 
 
To the Directors of Yes Bank Limited (YBL), 
Holds Statement No.: BSIV 806794-2024-2025-4 
 
Introduction 
The British Standards Institution (BSI) has conducted a limited assurance engagement on the 
sustainability related information (detailed in the “Scope”) mentioned in the United Nations Environment 
Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP-FI) Principles of Responsible Banking (PRB) PRB-Responsible Banking 
Progress Statement: Summary Template (PRB report) of Yes Bank Limited (YBL), for the period April 1, 
2024 to March 31, 2025 (FY 2024-25) 
 
Scope 
BSI was engaged by YBL to provide “Limited Assurance” on the target implementation and monitoring of 
most significant priority impact areas [Climate Change and Financial Inclusion] in the YBL’s PRB report in the 
form of an assurance opinion statement.  
The scope of engagement agreed upon with YBL includes the following: 
BSI has performed a limited assurance engagement on whether the YBL’s disclosures about its performance 
on its targets in the PRB report are fairly presented, in all material respects in accordance with the reporting 
criteria (refer table below). 
Sustainability information subject 
to limited assurance  
Period subject 
to assurance 
Reporting criteria 
Information on “Target Implementation 
and Monitoring” under “Principle 2 – 
Impacts & Targets Setting” as disclosed in 
the PRB-Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement: Summary Template  
April 1, 2024 to 
March 31, 2025 
• 
PRB-Responsible 
Banking 
Progress 
Statement: Summary Template, November 
2024, issued by UNEP FI 
• 
Guidance Documents for Banks on Reporting, 
February 2021, issued by UNEP FI 
• 
PRB Guidance Document, November 2021, 
issued by UNEP FI 
 
Limitations: 
The assurance scope excludes the following: 
• 
Data related to YBL’s financial performance. 
• 
Strategy and other related linkages expressed in the PRB report 
• 
Mapping of PRB report with other reporting frameworks other than those mentioned in the reporting 
criteria above. 
512
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
• 
Review of legal compliances. 
 
The independent limited assurance covers YBL performance about -  
A) Climate Change: 
Target: To reduce 50% emissions intensity of electricity generation portfolio by FY 2032 from baseline 
of FY 2022.  
KPI: Track emission intensity tCO2/MWh annually 
B) Financial Inclusion: 
Target 1: 20% Year on Year (YoY) increase in number of women beneficiaries till FY 2026 on a baseline 
of 7.6 lakh women beneficiary in FY 2023.  
KPI: Track Women beneficiaries annually 
Target 2: To achieve 25% Year on Year (YoY) increase in annual disbursements to Women microfinance 
borrowers till FY 2026 on a baseline of INR 1495 cr in FY 2023.  
KPI: Track annual loan disbursement amount 
Methodology 
Our assurance engagement was carried out in accordance with the ISAE3000 (Revised) assurance standard 
following the principles of Integrity, Objectivity, Professional competence and due care, Confidentiality and 
Professional behaviour. 
Our work has been carried out in accordance with the requirements laid out in ‘Guidance for assurance 
providers for providing limited assurance for reporting Principles of Responsible Banking’ Version 2, November 
2022, issued by UNEP FI. 
Our work was designed to gather evidence on which to base our conclusion. The nature, timing and extent 
of procedures selected depend on our judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatements of the selected PRB disclosures intentional/unintentional. We undertook the following 
activities: 
• 
Interactions with the YBL representatives to understand their vision and methodology adopted for PRB 
reporting. 
• 
Review of the YBL’s PRB report to understand the accuracy of the data and traceability of the process 
followed and documented, including the verification of the documents for the assurance check as outlined 
in the assurance checklist provided by UNEP Finance Initiative’s “Guidance for assurance providers for 
providing “Limited” Assurance for Reporting Principles of Responsible Banking” version 2, published by 
in November, 2022. 
• 
The internal controls within YBL relevant to the preparation of the PRB report including review of the 
findings of internal audits. 
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 000-000
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
513
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
• 
A top-level review of issues raised by external parties that could be relevant to Yes Bank Limited (YBL) 
policies to provide a check on the appropriateness of statements made in the report. 
• 
Interviews with staffs involved in management, PRB report preparation, provision of data & information, 
implementation of controls, etc were carried out. 
• 
Document review of relevant systems, policies, controls and procedures where available. 
• 
Evaluation of the appropriateness of the quantification methods used to arrive at the information 
presented for the selected principles in the PRB Report. 
• 
Evaluate if YBL’s description of the processes, activities and their outcomes sufficiently reflect actions 
taken. 
• 
Review of supporting evidence for claims made in the reports. 
• 
Visit of the main office of Yes Bank Limited (YBL) to confirm the data collection processes, record 
management practices, and check physically. 
 
Responsibility 
Yes Bank Limited (YBL) is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the information described 
in the “Scope” above in accordance with the agreed criteria. BSI is responsible for providing an independent 
assurance opinion statement to stakeholders of Yes Bank Limited (YBL), giving our professional opinion based 
on the scope and methodology described. 
 
Conclusions 
Our conclusion has been formed on the basis of and is subject to the matters outlined in the key areas of 
the PRB report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our conclusion. 
Information on “Target Implementation and Monitoring” under “Principle2 – Impacts & Targets Setting” as 
disclosed in the PRB Report of YBL, for the period April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 (FY 2024-25) presented 
for verification had no technical/compilation errors, which were sought to be identified during the sampling 
process in stage 1 and reverified in the final stage 2 submission. 
 
Climate Change:  
1) In FY25, Emission intensity of electricity generation portfolio was 0.381 tCO2/MWh which is well within 
the trajectory to achieve target (~39% lower compared to the base year FY22) 
 
Financial Inclusion:  
1) In FY25, YBL has reached 6.49 Lakh women beneficiaries (~1% lower compared to FY24) 
2) In FY 25, overall disbursement to women beneficiary has increased, with YBL’s lending totalling INR 
1803 Cr (~1% higher compared to FY24). 
 
Opinion Statement 
We have conducted a limited assurance engagement on the information described in the “Scope” above. 
 
514
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
 
 
 
 
 
 
BSI Group India Private Limited 
T: +91 11 4762 9000 
 
 
The Mira Corporate Suites                info.in@bsigroup.com 
Plot 1-2, Ishwar Nagar 
 
 bsigroup.com/en-IN 
Mathura Road, New Delhi-110065 
India 
 
 
 
The British Standards Institution 
Incorporated by Royal Charter 
Registered in India: CIN U74899DL1999PTC101381 
 
Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our 
attention that causes us to believe that the disclosed information in the YBL’s PRB report is not prepared, in 
all material respects, in accordance with the PRB guidance document published by UNEP Finance Initiative 
in November, 2021. 
 
The processes in a limited assurance engagement differ from and are less in extent than in a reasonable assurance 
engagement. The level of assurance attained in a limited assurance engagement is thus significantly lower than the 
assurance attained as compared with the assurance attained as part of a reasonable assurance engagement.       
 
Independence, Quality Control and Competence 
BSI is independent to Yes Bank Limited (YBL) and has no financial interest in the operation of Yes Bank 
Limited (YBL) other than for the assurance of the statements contained in the PRB report. 
The assurance was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including professionals with suitable experience n 
auditing environmental, social and economic information as per ISAE 3000 (Revised). 
This independent assurance opinion statement has been prepared for the stakeholders of Yes Bank Limited 
(YBL) for the purposes of verifying its statements relating to Principle 2 - Impacts & Targets Setting (as 
mentioned within the Principles of Responsible Banking), more particularly described in the Scope above.  
This independent assurance opinion statement is prepared based on review by BSI, of information presented 
to it by Yes Bank Limited (YBL). In making this independent assurance opinion statement, BSI has assumed 
that all information provided to it by Yes Bank Limited (YBL) is true, accurate and complete. BSI accepts no 
liability to any third party who places reliance on this statement. 
BSI applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with 
ISO/IEC 17021-1:2015 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including 
documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards 
and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.  
BSI is a leading global standards and assessment body founded in 1901. The BSI assurance team that 
conducted the assurance has extensive experience in conducting assurance & verification over 
environmental, social & governance (ESG), and GRI Universal Standard 2021, AA1000AS, ISO 10002, ISO 
14001, ISO 45001, ISO 14064, ISO 14068, ISO 50001, ISO 9001, etc. The assurance is carried out in line 
with the BSI Fair Trading Code of Practice. 
 
Issue Date: 21-07-2025 
For and on behalf of BSI: 
 
Sabyasachi Ghosh 
 
 
 
 
 
                          Theuns Kotze 
    Lead Assurer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Managing Director - BSI India 
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 000-000
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
515
Sections 
Material Topic 
GRI Indicators
Governance  
and Ethics 
(Page 94)
Governance and 
Compliance
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling  
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications
Business Ethics
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications
People and  
society 
(Page 124)
Data Security & Privacy
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data
Digital Innovation
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
Customer Relations
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data
Employment Practice
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans
202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage
202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or parttime employees
401-3 Parental leave
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee
404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken
Financial Inclusion
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes
413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities
Progress on 
Profitability 
(Page 162)
Progress on  
Profitability
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
Environment 
and Climate 
Change 
(Page 108)
Climate Action
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
305-4 GHG emissions intensity
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions
Operational  
eco-efficiency
302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation
302-3 Energy intensity
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
305-4 GHG emissions intensity
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions
Sustainable Finance
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change
GRI Content Index
Boundary Setting of Material Topics
516
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Statement of use
YES BANK Limited has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period FY 2024-25
GRI 1 used
GRI 1: Foundation 2021
Applicable GRI Sector Standards(s)
Not Applicable
GRI  
Standard
Disclosure
Materiality
Disclosure 
Level
References  
(Pg. No.)
Reason for Omission/ 
Explanation
General Disclosures 2021
GRI 2:  
General 
Disclosures 2021
2-1 Organisational Details
-
286, 293, 362
2-2 Entities included in the organisation’s 
sustainability reporting
-
4
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact 
point
-
5
2-4 Restatements of information
-
308, 309, 311, 
322, 325, 326, 
327, 328, 330, 
332, 336, 337
2-5 External assurance
-
5, 493
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business 
relationships
-
28, 44, 49, 156, 
182, 293
2-7 Employees
-
128, 141, 294
2-8 Workers who are not employees
-
128, 141, 294
2-9 Governance structure and composition
-
97, 101, 238, 245, 
247, 249, 291
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest 
governance body
-
99
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body
-
238
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in 
overseeing the management of impacts
-
100
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing 
impacts
-
101
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in 
sustainability reporting
-
77, 78
2-15 Conflicts of interest
-
99, 207
2-16 Communication of critical concerns
-
70, 76, 215, 260, 
434
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest 
governance body
-
306
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the 
highest governance body
-
100, 209
2-19 Remuneration policies
-
99, 210, 255
2-20 Process to determine remuneration
-
210, 255
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio
-
100
2-22 Statement on sustainable development 
strategy
-
8, 12
2-23 Policy commitments
-
80, 82, 84, 86, 
88, 90
2-24 Embedding policy commitments
-
81, 83, 85, 87, 
89, 91
Fulfills disclosure requirements
Partially fulfills disclosure requirements
Not Applicable
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 000-000
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
517
Statement of use
YES BANK Limited has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period FY 2024-25
GRI 1 used
GRI 1: Foundation 2021
Applicable GRI Sector Standards(s)
Not Applicable
GRI  
Standard
Disclosure
Materiality
Disclosure 
Level
References  
(Pg. No.)
Reason for Omission/ 
Explanation
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts
-
72, 73, 74, 75
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and 
raising concerns
-
72, 73, 74, 75
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations
-
307
2-28 Membership associations
-
334
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement
-
70
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements
-
134
The Bank does not have 
collective bargaining
agreements. All YES BANK
employees are free to
exercise the lawful rights to
Freedom of Association
Material Topics 2021
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-1 Process to determine material topics
-
76
3-2 List of material topics
-
76
3-3 Management of material topics
-
80, 82, 84, 86, 
88, 90
Topic Standards
GRI 201: 
Economic 
Performance 
2016
201-1 Direct economic value generated and 
distributed
Material
169
201-2 Financial implications and other risks 
and opportunities due to climate change
Material
69, 116, 118
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and 
other retirement plans
Material
140
GRI 202: Market 
Presence 2016
202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by 
gender compared to local minimum wage
Material
134
202-2 Proportion of senior management hired 
from the local community
Material
142
GRI 204: 
Procurement 
Practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of spending on local 
suppliers
Material
336
GRI 205: Anti-
corruption 2016
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 
corruption
Material
104
205-2 Communication and training about anti-
corruption policies and procedures
Material
104, 306
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 
actions taken
Material
104, 106, 307
GRI 206: Anti-
competitive 
Behavior 2016
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices
Material
335
Fulfills disclosure requirements
Partially fulfills disclosure requirements
Not Applicable
518
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Statement of use
YES BANK Limited has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period FY 2024-25
GRI 1 used
GRI 1: Foundation 2021
Applicable GRI Sector Standards(s)
Not Applicable
GRI  
Standard
Disclosure
Materiality
Disclosure 
Level
References  
(Pg. No.)
Reason for Omission/ 
Explanation
GRI 207: Tax 
2019
207-1 Approach to tax
Not Material
106
207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk 
management
Not Material
106
207-3 Stakeholder engagement and 
management of concerns related to tax
Not Material
106
207-4 Country-by-country reporting
Not Material
106
GRI 302: Energy 
2016
302-1 Energy consumption within the 
organisation
Material
111, 325,
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the 
organisation
Material
111, 112, 325 
302-3 Energy intensity
Material
111
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption
Material
111
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of 
products and services
Material
111
GRI 303: Water 
and Effluents 
2018
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared 
resource 
Not Material
114
303-2 Management of water discharge-
related impacts
Not Material
114
303-3 Water withdrawal
Not Material
114
303-4 Water discharge
Not Material
114
303-5 Water consumption
Not Material
114
GRI 305: 
Emissions 2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
Material
111, 327
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
Material
111, 327
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
Material
111, 332
305-4 GHG emissions intensity
Material
111, 327
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
Material
111
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting 
substances (ODS)
Not Material
-
The Bank is not involved in 
the production, imports, and 
exports of ozone-depleting 
substance (ODS)
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides 
(SOx), and other significant air emissions
Material
111
Fulfills disclosure requirements
Partially fulfills disclosure requirements
Not Applicable
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 000-000
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
519
Statement of use
YES BANK Limited has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period FY 2024-25
GRI 1 used
GRI 1: Foundation 2021
Applicable GRI Sector Standards(s)
Not Applicable
GRI  
Standard
Disclosure
Materiality
Disclosure 
Level
References  
(Pg. No.)
Reason for Omission/ 
Explanation
GRI 306: Waste 
2020
306-1 Waste generation and significant 
waste-related impacts
Not Material
113
306-2 Management of significant waste-
related impacts
Not Material
113
306-3 Waste generated
Not Material
113, 329
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal
Not Material
113, 329
306-5 Waste directed to disposal
Not Material
113, 329
GRI 401: 
Employment 
2016
401-1 New employee hires and employee 
turnover
Material
142
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time 
employees that are not provided to temporary 
or part-time employees
Material
311, 371
401-3 Parental leave
Material
136
GRI 402: Labor/
Management 
Relations 2016
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding 
operational changes
Material
135
GRI 403: 
Occupational 
Health and Safety 
2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety 
management system
Not Material
136
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, 
and incident investigation
Not Material
136
403-3 Occupational health services
Not Material
136
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health and 
safety
Not Material
-
403-5 Worker training on occupational health 
and safety
Not Material
-
The Bank operates in 
the banking and finance 
services sector and does not 
have workers
403-6 Promotion of worker health
Not Material
-
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of 
occupational health and safety impacts directly 
linked by business relationships
Not Material
-
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational 
health and safety management system
Not Material
136
403-9 Work-related injuries
Not Material
315
403-10 Work-related ill health
Not Material
315
Fulfills disclosure requirements
Partially fulfills disclosure requirements
Not Applicable
520
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Statement of use
YES BANK Limited has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period FY 2024-25
GRI 1 used
GRI 1: Foundation 2021
Applicable GRI Sector Standards(s)
Not Applicable
GRI  
Standard
Disclosure
Materiality
Disclosure 
Level
References  
(Pg. No.)
Reason for Omission/ 
Explanation
GRI 404: Training 
and Education 
2016
404-1 Average hours of training per year per 
employee
Material
131
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 
and transition assistance programs
Material
132, 316
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 
regular performance and career development 
reviews
Material
138, 314
GRI 405: Diversity 
and Equal 
Opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 
employees
Material
97, 128
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration 
of women to men
Material
129
GRI 406: Non-
discrimination 
2016
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and 
corrective actions taken
Material
315
GRI 413: Local 
Communities 
2016
413-1 Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, and 
development programs
Material
159
The Bank is yet to 
undertake any social impact 
assessments of its financial 
inclusion and community 
development initiatives.
413-2 Operations with significant actual 
and potential negative impacts on local 
communities
Material
159
Being a part of service 
sector, the bank does not 
pose any significant actual/
potential negative impact on 
local communities 
GRI 417: 
Marketing and 
Labeling 2016
417-1 Requirements for product and service 
information and labeling
Material
338
Given the Bank’s nature 
of business as a service 
sector enterprise and 
a financial institution, 
the Bank does not offer 
products which are required 
to carry information about 
environmental parameters
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
product and service information and labeling
Material
103
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
marketing communications
Material
103
GRI 418: 
Customer Privacy 
2016
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning 
breaches of customer privacy and losses of 
customer data
Material
155
Fulfills disclosure requirements
Partially fulfills disclosure requirements
Not Applicable
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 000-000
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
521
Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) Index
Pillars
Disclosure
Report Section (Page No.)
Governance
Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities
69, 101
Management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks 
and opportunities
Strategy
Climate-related risks and opportunities identified over the short, 
medium and long term
69, 116, 120-123
Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the Bank’s 
businesses, strategy and financial planning
Resilience of the Bank’s strategy, considering different climate 
related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario
118-119
Risk 
Management
The Bank’s processes for identifying and assessing climate related 
risks
76-91, 116
The Bank’s processes for managing climate-related risks
117-123
How processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-
related risks are integrated into the Bank’s overall risk management
69
Metrics and 
Targets
Metrics used by the Bank to assess climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process
110-114, 118-122
Scope 1, Scope 2 and, Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, and 
related risks
111-112, 118-119
The Bank’s targets to manage climate-related risks and 
opportunities and its performance
111, 118-119
522
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
YES BANK aims to embed integrated thinking into its 
business in order to ensure that all aspects of its value 
creation process coalesce around its goal of achieving 
sustainable performance, ecological sustainability and social 
development go hand in hand. YES BANK has adopted a 360 
degree ESG strategy which strives to align with national 
and global frameworks such as the National Guidelines for 
Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC), the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs), the Paris Climate Agreement, and 
the Principles of Responsible Banking (PRB) on sustainable 
development, addressing key impacts of the Bank’s business 
activities and embed ESG considerations into all aspects of its 
Alignment
Principle 1
business ecosystem. As challenges such as climate change, 
environmental degradation, income and gender inequality 
redefine the paradigms of a 21st century economy, the Bank 
believes that true value creation must not be limited to 
financial capital, but encompass an organisation’s aggregate 
impact on people, planet and profits. The Bank thus aims to 
harmonize its actions, account for its impacts and report its 
performance across its financial, manufactured, intellectual, 
human, social, and natural capitals. The Bank publishes its 
ESG strategy and performance in its reporting aligned with IR, 
GRI, BRSR and PRB. 
Links & references
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: Our Value Creation Model: Page 92-93
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: ESG Strategy: Page 59
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: Financial inclusion: Page 143-146
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: Supporting employability and entrepreneurship through CSR: Page 159-161
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: Enhancing resilience of lending portfolio: Page 114-119
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: Reducing environmental impacts through operational eco-efficiency: Page 110-114
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25 Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report: Page 295-341
Website: Sustainable financing
In FY2021-22, In line with PRB requirement YES BANK 
used UNEP FI PRB Portfolio Impact Assessment tool v2, 
(published on July 16, 2021) to assess its entire lending 
(Corporate, Retail and MSME) portfolio & all Retail product 
suite(as on December 31, 2021). Considering the scope, 
scale of exposure, context and relevance, Climate Change 
and Inclusive Healthy economies/ Financial Inclusion has 
been identified as significant impact areas to pursue focused 
approach driven by specific, measurable, actionable, relevant 
and time bound targets mentioned below, in consultation 
with top management:
Impact & Target Setting
Principle 2
Climate Change: Bank has taken a target to reduce 50% 
emissions intensity of electricity generation portfolio by 
FY 2032 from baseline of FY 2022. 
Financial Inclusion: Bank has taken a target of 20% Year on 
Year (Y-O-Y) increase in number of women beneficiaries till 
FY 2026 on a baseline of 7.6 lakh women beneficiary in 
FY 2023 and to achieve 25% Year on Year (Y-O-Y) increase in 
annual disbursements to Women microfinance borrowers till 
FY 2026 on a baseline of 1,495 crore in FY 2023.
The Bank monitors and discloses its performance in 
section ‘Principles of Responsible Banking: Portfolio Impact 
Assessment and Targets’ in its Integrated Report 
Links & references
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: Principles of Responsible Banking: Portfolio Impact Assessment and 
Targets: Page 170-171
PRB-Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement: Summary Template
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 000-000
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
523
The Bank is committed to ensure sustainable and responsible 
relationship with its clients and customers, as highlighted by 
its “CODE OF BANK’S COMMITMENT TO CUSTOMERS” and 
“CHARTER OF CUSTOMER’S RIGHTS”. The Bank strives to 
provide superior and seamless customer service experience 
to enhance its service proposition.
The Bank is committed to work with and support its 
customers in adoption of sustainable practices through 
its innovative products, initiatives and knowledge Banking 
Approach. The Bank had utilised and is committed to 
explore innovative products such as green bonds, green 
fixed deposits, specific credit lines from MDBs/DFIs for 
supporting sustainable projects. Through implementation 
of its Environmental and Social Policy, the Bank tries to 
Clients & Customers
Principle 3
positively influence borrowers, by engaging them in adopting 
appropriate sustainable practices to meet higher ESG industry 
expectations and mitigate any existing or potential significant 
Environment and Social Risk associated with projects. 
The Bank undertakes various interventions to engage 
with customers and incubate financial discipline among its 
members, promoting financial literacy. The Bank through 
specialised groups such as Corporate & Government Advisory 
(CGA), Food & Agribusiness Strategic Advisory & Research 
(FASAR) and Business Economic Banking (BEB) leverages its 
in-depth sectoral expertise, research skills and apex-level 
relationship capital across the industry ecosystem to assist 
clients, including central and state governments, multi-lateral 
bodies, industry chambers and private sector players, in their 
developmental and growth agenda.
Links & references
Website: Code of Bank’s Commitment to Customers
Website: Charter Of Customer Rights
Website: YES BANK’s Environment & Social Risk Management System 
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: Environmental and Social (E&S) Risk: Page 114-115
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: Digital innovations to enhance customer experience: Page 150-153
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: Responsible Customer Relations: Page 147-149
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: Knowledge Banking: Page 187-188
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: Financial inclusion: Page 143-146
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: Advocacy and knowledge sharing on climate and sustainable finance: Page 118
YES BANK interacts with a varied set of stakeholders who 
play an indispensable role in the Bank’s journey of value 
creation. YES BANK has identified the 9 groups as key 
stakeholders (Such as Investors, Employees, Regulatory 
Bodies, Competitors, Customers, Communities etc). The Bank 
continually engages and consults its key stakeholders through 
a combination of structured and need based engagement 
mechanisms to address their grievances and incorporate 
their feedback into its overall business strategy. 
The Bank continues to engage with its stakeholders through 
an amalgamation of several pre-determined, structured, and 
need based engagement mechanisms.
Stakeholders
Principle 4
The Bank through specialised groups such as, Sustainable 
Finance, Corporate & Government Advisory (CGA), Food & 
Agribusiness Strategic Advisory & Research (FASAR) and 
Business Economic Banking (BEB) leverages its in-depth 
sectoral expertise, research skills and relationships to 
engage with clients, including central and state governments, 
multi-lateral bodies, industry chambers and private sector 
players, regulatory bodies in varying capacities to mainstream 
sustainable development.
Links & references
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Assessment: Page 70-91
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: Advocacy and knowledge sharing on climate and sustainable finance: Page 118
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: Integrating ESG in the Bank’s Value Chain: Page 156-158
524
YES BANK LIMITED
 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
The Bank has established effective Governance structure for 
reviewing and monitoring its ESG, Climate and Sustainable 
Development strategy, through:
	y
Board Level Committee: Corporate Social Responsibility 
and Environmental Social & Governance Committee 
oversees the Sustainability Council (Management level 
committee) and guide the Bank’s overall ESG agenda 
including implementation of UNEP FI PRB
	y
Management Level Committee: Sustainability Council 
chaired by the MD & CEO oversees the implementation 
of the Bank’s sustainability agenda, sets long, medium 
& short-term sustainability targets and evaluates the 
Bank’s ESG performance
Governance & Culture
Principle 5
 Remuneration linked to KPI:
The Bank has also dovetailed domain-specific ESG KPIs into 
the goal sheets of relevant executive management, cascading 
its thrust on sustainable outcomes, across the organisation.
Training
The Bank focuses on building capacity through e-learning and 
classroom training modules on various sustainability topics. 
The Bank also rolled-out a bank-wide training module to 
educate its employees on the Bank’s environmental goals and 
best practices in environmental management
Links & references
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: ESG and Climate Governance: Page 101-102
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: Key Learning Interventions: Page 132-133
YES BANK publishes its integrated report in alignment with 
Integrated Reporting, GRI and TCFD framework. Bank also 
publishes its Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
(BRSR) along with its Integrated Reporting. Further to that, 
the Bank provides annual disclosures on CDP platform. 
YES BANK’s Integrated Annual Report for FY 2024-25 
has been prepared in accordance with the <IR> and GRI 
Transparency & Accountability
Principle 6
Framework and is externally assured by BSI Group India 
Private Limited. Also, the Bank’s BRSR is externally assured 
by BSI Group India Private Limited. 
Further to that, BSI Group India Private Ltd has provided 
limited assurance on “Target Implementation & Monitoring” 
for FY 2024-25.
Links & references
Annual Integrated Report 2024-25: Independent Assurance Opinion Statement PRB: Page 512-515
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS IN-DEPTH
PG 000-000
OUR PERFORMANCE
STATUTORY REPORTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
525
YES BANK Limited
Regd. & Corporate Office
YES BANK House, Off Western Express Highway, 
Santacruz East, Mumbai - 400055, India
W: www.yesbank.in
T: +91 (22) 5091 9800; +91 (22) 6507 9800
F: +91 (22) 2619 2866
CIN: L65190MH2003PLC143249
